# The Last Days and December 1890 2nd Coming of Jesus Christ.

## By George D. Speer Sr.

The fact that the LDS Church believes that these are the “last days” of
the world is beyond dispute. Even naming our Church after the
Latter-days. This doctrine that has been repeated over and over again,
by every prophet and leader, through out the history of the LDS Church.
Every member understands this doctrine and has been taught since
childhood to believe it.

We’ve been taught; *“For the prophecy came not in old time by the will
of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy
Ghost.”* [(2 Pet.
1:19–21)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-pet/1.19-21?lang=eng#18)
But what prophecies have been hidden from the members of the LDS Church?
***“There are those of the rising generation who shall not taste death
till Christ comes.”*** (Joseph Smith Jr., April 6, 1843 General
Conference)

*“Brethren, these are some of the writings with which you should concern
yourselves, rather than commentaries that may come from those whose
information may not be the most reliable and whose motives may be
subject to question. And may I say, parenthetically, most of such
writers are not handicapped by having any authentic information on their
writings”* (Harold B. Lee, in Conference Report, Oct. 1972, 128; or
Ensign, Jan. 1973, 106).

The LDS Church since 1820 has had much to say, about the Last Days and
the 2nd Coming of Jesus Christ, usually focusing not only on the
preparation of his advent, but rather on the signs. This focus often has
the effect of producing the emotions of fear, doom, and dread – all of
them incompatible with love. Jesus taught “There is no fear in love; but
perfect love casteth out fear” (1 John 4:18) It’s ironic but not
surprising that the LDS Church requires more of their members to enter
the Kingdom of God then Jesus. “v.28 Come unto me, all ye that labour
and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. v.29 Take my yoke upon
you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall
find rest unto your souls. v.30 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is
light. (Matt 11:28-30)

Here is a chronological history by the early LDS Church, on the Second
Advent of Jesus Christ, and predictions of his coming in the following
years: 1846, before 1880, 1881, 1882 after 1884, 1890-91.

1820 The Orson Pratt Journals (August 3rd, 1838) “*Mr. Joseph Smith,
Jr., who made the following important discovery… was born… on the 23rd
of December, A. D. 1805… When somewhere about fourteen or fifteen years
old [1820], he **began seriously to reflect upon the necessity of being
prepared for a future state of existence;** but how, or in what way, to
prepare himself was a question as yet undetermined in his own mind. He
perceived that it was **a question of infinite importance, and that the
salvation of his soul depended upon a correct understanding of the
same.** He saw that if he understood not the way, it would be impossible
to walk in it except by chance, and the thought of resting his hopes of
eternal life upon chance or uncertainties was more than he could endure…
[account of the 1st Vision:] he was enrapt in a heavenly vision, and saw
two glorious personages who exactly resembled each other in their
features or likeness. He was informed that his sins were forgiven…
[note: not God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ; but two unidentified
personages] And it pleased God on the evening of the **21st of
September, A. D. 1823**, to again hear his prayers. For he had retired
to rest as usual, only that his mind was drawn out in fervent prayer,
and his soul was filled with the most earnest desire "to commune with
some kind messenger who could communicate to him the desired information
of his acceptance with God," and also **unfold the principles of the
doctrine of Christ, according to the promise which he had received in
the former vision**…* [note: vision not visitation] *This glorious being
declared himself to be angel of God,* [note: not God the Father and his
Son Jesus Christ] *sent forth by commandment, to communicate to him that
his sins were forgiven and that his prayers were heard; and also, to
bring the joyful tidings, **that the covenant which God made with
ancient Israel concerning their posterity was at hand to be fulfilled;
that the great preparatory work for the second coming of the Messiah was
speedily to commence**; that the time was at hand for the gospel in its
fullness to be preached in power unto all nations; that a people might
be prepared with faith and righteousness, for the millennial reign of
universal peace and joy.”* (Far West, August 3rd, 1838. Source: Orson
Pratt, A Interesting Account of Several Remarkable Visions, and of the
Late Discovery of Ancient American Records (Edinburgh, 1840) FACTS IN
RELATION TO THE LATE DISCOVERY OF ANCIENT AMERICAN RECORDS
<http://www.boap.org/LDS/Early-Saints/OPratt.html> )

1820, George A. Smith (September 5, 1855) *“Joseph Smith, jun… **At the
age of 15** [1820] **he began to reflect seriously on the necessity of
being prepared for a future state of existence…** On the **21st
September, 1823,** while engaged in prayer and striving to exercise
faith, the room was filled with light surpassing that of noon day, in
the midst of which was a person whose countenance was as lightning, and
yet so full of innocence and goodness, and of such a glorious appearance
as to banish all apprehension: he was **an angel commissioned of God to
inform him that the covenants with ancient Israel touching their
posterity should soon be fulfilled, and that the great work to prepare
for the second coming of Christ should now commence;** the fulness of
the gospel be made known to all nations; that the native inhabitants of
America were a remnant of Israel, who had anciently enjoyed the ministry
of inspired men; that records containing their history had been
preserved to the period of their national degeneracy, and that those
records had been concealed in the earth, and the Lord promised they
should soon be revealed...”* ([*The Desert
News*](http://www.sidneyrigdon.com/dbroadhu/UT/utahmsc0.htm) *“Truth and
Liberty”* G. S. L. City, U. T., September 5, 1855, Vol. V, No. 26.
George Albert Smith, Church Historian)

Prefix to the above: The following succinct history of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, jun., and of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday
Saints, was written in March 1855, for publication in the People's
Journal, in compliance with a request made by the publishers, Tonsly and
Cowin, to President Brigham Young; but inasmuch as it did not appear in
that paper, it was, by consent of the author, published in the Deseret
News Sept. 5, 1855. Of late there has been much inquiry by strangers and
sojourners in relation the history of the Latterday Saints from the
"rise of the Church till and subsequent to their location in these
Mountain Valleys; and upon suggestion, we have, for the benefit of those
thus interested in the matter, thought proper to republish it,
correcting a few errors that were inadvertently made in the first
instance in setting from the original manuscript.— [Ed. News.] (NOTE:
Re-Published 17 June 1865: THE LATTERS-DAY SAINTS' MILLENNIAL STAR, Vol.
XXVII, Pub. 17 June 1865, London England, page 66)

<span id="p1" class="anchor"></span>1820 (2015 Modern Day Teaching,
LDS.org) The Prophet Joseph Smith’s own words about the coming forth of
the Book of Mormon:<span id="p12" class="anchor"></span> *“Sept. 21,
1823. He [Moroni] commenced, and again related the very same things
which he had done at his first visit, without the least variation; which
having done, he informed me of great judgments which were coming upon
the earth, with great desolations by famine, sword, and pestilence; and
that **these grievous judgments would come on the earth in this
generation.** Having related these things, he again ascended as he had
done before.”* (<https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/js?lang=eng>)

<span id="17" class="anchor"></span>

1829 March, <span id="1" class="anchor"></span> *“v.1 Behold, I say unto
you, … my servant Joseph Smith, Jun. v.2 ...\***I, the Lord [Jesus
Christ], am God,*** <span id="9" class="anchor"></span>*v.9 Behold,
verily I [God] say unto you, I [God] have reserved those things which I
[God] have entrusted unto you, my servant Joseph, for a wise purpose in
me [God], and it shall be made known unto future generations; v.10 But
this generation shall have my [God] word through you;  v.16 And behold,
whosoever believeth on my words, them will I [God] visit with the
manifestation of my [God] Spirit… *<span id="18"
class="anchor"></span>*v.18 And their testimony shall also go forth unto
**the condemnation of this generation** if they harden their hearts
against them;*<span id="19" class="anchor"></span> * v.19 For a
desolating scourge shall go forth among the inhabitants of the earth,
and shall continue to be poured out from time to time, if they repent
not, until the earth is empty, and **the inhabitants thereof are
consumed away and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my [God]
coming.**”* [(D&C
5:1-2,9-10,16,18-19)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/5.1-2,9-10,16,18-19?lang=eng#9)
**\***NOTE: At this time Joseph Smith was teaching the Trinity. It
wasn’t till Joseph met [Sidney
Rigdon](http://www.sidneyrigdon.com/features/campbell.htm) of the
[Campbellite
Faith](https://www.dialoguejournal.com/wp-content/uploads/sbi/articles/Dialogue_V05N02_73.pdf)
that his doctrine changed. See: Book of Commandments, Lecture of Faith
\#5; also read the Q&A at the end of Lecture \#5.
<https://archive.org/stream/latterdaysaintsm01unse#page/122/mode/2up/search/%22latter+day%22>

1830 March, *"...Those who gain this divine witness from the Holy Spirit
will also come to know by the same power that **Jesus Christ is the
Savior of this world**, and that **Joseph Smith is his revelator and
prophet in these last days,** and that The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints is the Lord’s kingdom once again established on the
earth, **preparatory to the Second Coming of the Messiah.** "* (Book of
Mormon, Introduction.
<https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/introduction>)

1830 October, *”v.16 And **the Book of Mormon and the holy scriptures
are given of me for your instruction**; and the power of **my Spirit
quickeneth** all things. v.17 Wherefore, be faithful, praying always,
having your lamps trimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be
ready at **the coming of the Bridegroom**— v.18 For behold, verily,
verily, I say unto you, that **I come quickly**. Even so. Amen* [(D&C
33:16-18)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/33.16-18?lang=eng#16)

1830 September, ***“The hour is nigh, and the day soon at hand,…** There
shall be weeping and wailing among the hosts of men.... I will take
vengeance upon the wicked, for they will not repent: For the cup of mine
indignation is full…. I the Lord God will send forth flies upon the face
of the earth, which shall take hold of the inhabitants thereof, and
shall eat their flesh, and shall cause maggots to come in upon them, and
their tongues shall be stayed that they shall not utter against me, and
their flesh shall fall from off their bones, and their eyes from their
sockets…. [T]he beasts of the forest, and the fowls of the air, shall
devour them up: And that great and abominable church, which is the whore
of all the earth, shall be cast down by devouring fire.”* ([Book of
Commandments](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperDetails/book-of-commandments-1833?p=23#!/paperSummary/book-of-commandments-1833&p=67),
Chapter XXIX: verse 10, 18-24, pp. 62-63)

1830 December 7,  *“v.15 The poor and the meek shall have the gospel
preached unto them, and **they shall be looking forth for the time of my
coming, for it is nigh at hand.***<span id="26" class="anchor"></span>
*v.26 Lift up your hearts and be glad**, your redemption draweth
nigh**.*<span id="27" class="anchor"></span> * v.27 Fear not, little
flock, the kingdom is yours until I come. **Behold, I come quickly**.”*
([Book of
Commandments](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperDetails/book-of-commandments-1833?p=23#!/paperSummary/book-of-commandments-1833&p=81),
<span id="XCFC4ED26-B029-4B74-8639-24A2A0DCDE24"
class="anchor"></span>Chapter XXXVII verse 17, page 77) (D&C
35:15,26-27)

1831 January 5, *“v.8 And verily I say unto thee, thine heart is now
right before me at this time; and, behold, I have bestowed great
blessings upon thy head; v*.*10 **Behold the days of thy deliverance are
come**… v.11 which I have sent forth in these last days… v.15 Inasmuch
as my people shall assemble themselves to the Ohio, I have kept in store
a blessing such as is not known among the children of men… v.19 The
kingdom of heaven is at hand… v.20 Prepare the way before my face, for
the time of my coming; v.21 for the time is at hand… v. 23 and shall be
looking forth for the signs of my coming… v.24 Behold I come quickly.”*
([Book of
Commandments,](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperDetails/book-of-commandments-1833?p=23#!/paperSummary/book-of-commandments-1833&p=89)
Chapter XLI: verse 8,14,19-20,23, pp. 85-87) [(D&C
39:8,10,11,15,19-24)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/39.8,10,11,15,19-24)

1831 February, *“Prepare for the great day of the Lord…. **The day has
come**, when the cup of the wrath of mine indignation, is full…. The
great Millennial reign, which I have spoken by the mouth of my servants,
shall come.”* ([Book of
Commandments,](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperDetails/book-of-commandments-1833?p=23#!/paperSummary/book-of-commandments-1833&p=102)
XLV: verse 24, 31, 36, pp. 98-99)

1831 March 7, *“v.16 **concerning the signs of my coming**… v.20 And
this **[Kirtland] Temple which ye now see shall be thrown down that
there shall not be left one stone upon another**.  v.21 And it shall
come to pass, that **this generation of Jews shall not pass away until
every desolation which I have told you concerning them shall come to
pass.** v.37 Ye look and behold the fig trees, and ye see them with your
eyes, and ye say when they begin to shoot forth, and their leaves are
yet tender, **that summer is now nigh at hand**;*<span id="38"
class="anchor"></span> * v.38 Even so it shall be in that day when they
shall see all these things, then shall they know that the **hour is
nigh**.*<span id="39" class="anchor"></span> * v.39 And it shall come to
pass that he that feareth me shall be looking forth for the great day of
the Lord to come, even for the **signs of the coming** of the Son of
Man.”* [(D&C 45:
16-62)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.16-62?lang=eng#48)

1831 March 15, **[1846 second coming prediction]** *“… all who believed
the new bible [BOM] would see ***Christ within fifteen years***,*
[15+1831=1846] *and all who did not would absolutely be destroyed and
dam’d.”* (High Priest Martin Harris, The Telegraph, Painesville, OH,
[March 15, 1831](http://www.sidneyrigdon.com/dbroadhu/OH/paintel2.htm),
vol. 2, no. 39)

<http://www.sidneyrigdon.com/dbroadhu/OH/paintel2.htm>

1831 May 7, *“v.5 \***Thus saith the Lord [Jesus Christ]; for *I am
God*, and have sent mine Only Begotten Son** into the world for the
redemption of the world, and have decreed that he that receiveth him
shall be saved, and he that receiveth him not shall be damned—* <span
id="6" class="anchor"></span>*v.6 And they have done unto the Son of Man
even as they listed; and he has taken his power on the right hand of his
glory, and now reigneth in the heavens, and will reign till he descends
on the earth to put all enemies under his feet, **which time is nigh at
hand**—*<span id="7" class="anchor"></span> *v.7 I, the Lord God, have
spoken it; but **the hour and the day no man knoweth, neither the angels
in heaven, nor shall they know until he comes.*** [(D&C
49:5-7)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/49.5-7?lang=eng#6) \*NOTE:
At this time Joseph Smith was teaching the trinity. It wasn’t till
Joseph met [Sidney
Rigdon](http://www.sidneyrigdon.com/features/campbell.htm) of the
[Campbellite](https://www.dialoguejournal.com/wp-content/uploads/sbi/articles/Dialogue_V05N02_73.pdf)
Faith that his doctrine changed. See Book of Commandments.

1831 June 4, “*I saw Joseph Smith the Prophet when he first came to
Kirtland, and was with him in the first conference held in that place,
which was in a small schoolhouse. When he arose in our midst he said
that **before the conference closed there were those present who should
see the heavens open and bear record of the coming of the Son of Man**,
and that the man of sin should be revealed... Lyman Wight, while being
ordained to the priesthood by Joseph Smith, prophesied (while Smith’s
hands were still upon his head) “that there were **some in this
congregation that should live until the Savior should descend from
heaven**, with a Shout, with all the holy angels with him.”* *Harvey
Whitlock stepped into the middle of the room with his arms crossed,
bound by the power of Satan, and his mouth twisted unshapely. Hyrum
Smith arose and declared that there was an evil spirit in the room.
Joseph said, "Don't be too hasty," and Hyrum sat down. Shortly Hyrum
rose the second time, saying, "I know my duty and will do it," and
stepping to Harvey, commanded the evil spirits to leave him, but the
spirits did not obey. Joseph then approached Harvey and asked him if he
believed in God. Then we saw a change in Harvey. **He also bore record
of the opening of the heavens and of the coming of the Son of Man,
precisely as Lyman Wight had done. ***([Book of John
Whitmer,](http://www.boap.org/LDS/Early-Saints/JWhitmer-history.html)
Church Historian p.69–71; [4th Conference
Events](http://www.scottwoodward.org/churchhistory_kirtland_4thConferenceEvents.html)
also
[josephsmithpapers.org](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/history-1838-1856-volume-a-1-23-december-1805-30-august-1834?p=124))

1831 June 6, *“v.1 Behold, **thus saith the Lord** unto the elders whom
he hath called and chosen **in these last days**, by the voice of his
Spirit—*<span id="11" class="anchor"></span> *v.11 For thus saith the
Lord, **I will cut my work short in righteousness, for the days come
that I will send forth judgment unto victory**.*<span id="36"
class="anchor"></span> *v.36 Let them labor with their families,
declaring none other things than the prophets and apostles, that which
they have seen and heard and most assuredly believe, **that the
prophecies may be fulfilled**.*<span id="43" class="anchor"></span>
*v.43 But, behold, I, the Lord, will hasten the city in its time, and
will crown the faithful with joy and with rejoicing.*<span id="44"
class="anchor"></span> *v.44 Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God,
and **I will lift them up at the last day**. Even so. Amen.* [(D&C 52:1,
11, 36, 43,
44)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/52.1,11,36,43,44)

1831 July 17, Polygamy Introduced: *“evidence indicates that some of the
principles involved in this [Polygamy] revelation were known by the
Prophet as early as 1831”*[(D&C 132
Heading)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132)

“*Verily I [Jesus Christ] say unto you that the wisdom of man in his
fallen state, knoweth not the purposes and **the privileges of my holy
priesthood**. but ye shall know when ye receive a fulness by reason of
the anointing: For it is my will, that in time, **ye should take unto
you WIVES of the Lamanites and Nephites, that their posterity may become
WHITE, Delightsome and Just**, for even now their females are more
virtuous than the gentiles. *

*Gird up your loins and be **prepared for the mighty work of the Lord to
prepare the world for my second coming** to meet the tribes of Israel
according to the predictions of all the holy prophets since the
beginning; For the final desolation, and decrees upon Babylon: For, as
the everlasting gospel is carried from this land, in love for peace, to
gather mine elect from the four quarters of the earth, for Zion,— even
so shall rebellion follow after speedily, with hatred for war until the
consumption decreed hath made a full end of all the kingdoms and nations
that strive to govern themselves by the laws and precepts, and force and
powers of men under the curse of sin, in all the world.*

* Verily I say unto you, that **the day of vexation and vengeance is
nigh** at the doors of this nation, when wicked, ungodly and daring men
will rise up in wrath and might, and go forth in anger, like as the dust
is driven by [a] terrible wind; and they will be the means of the
destruction of the government, and cause the death and misery of man[y]
souls, but **the faithful among my people shall be preserved in holy
places, during all these tribulations.”*** (Revelation by Joseph Smith;
Polygamy with the Native Americans Indians. 17 July 1831, Jackson Co.,
Missouri)

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Origin_of_Latter_Day_Saint_polygamy>

<http://www.utlm.org/images/indianpolygamyp230bshadow.gif>

<http://www.utlm.org/onlineresources/indianpolygamyrevelation.htm>

Revelations leading up to this Polygamy [(D&C
28:8)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/28.8?lang=eng)
[(D&C 32:
1-5)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/32.1-5?lang=eng)

1831 July 20, The Independence Temple was the first temple commanded to
be built in this dispensation. [notice how it was changed from “this
Generation” to “this Dispensation”] The Temple Lot is located in Jackson
County—revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith to be the location of the
Garden of Eden. When Adam and Eve were driven out, they dwelt in
[Adam-ondi-Ahman](http://www.ldschurchtemples.com/adamondiahman/).
<http://www.ldschurchtemples.com/independence/>

1831 September 11, Did Joseph Smith prophecy his own down fall? <span
id="29" class="anchor"></span> *“v.34 Behold, the Lord requireth the
heart and a willing mind; and **the willing and** **obedient shall eat
the good of the land of Zion in these last days**. v.35 And the
rebellious shall be cut off out of the land of Zion, and shall be sent
away, and shall not inherit the land.  v.38 For it shall come to pass
that the inhabitants of Zion shall judge all things pertaining to Zion.
 v.39 **And liars and hypocrites shall be proved by THEM, and they who
are not Apostles and Prophets shall be known.”*** [(D&C
64:29-39)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/64.29-39?lang=eng)

1831 November 1, Revelation received from the Lord to Joseph Smith:
*“v.12 **Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord
is nigh**.”* [(D&C
1:9-16)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.9-16?lang=eng)

1831 November 1, *“v.37 Search these commandments, for they are true and
faithful, and **the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all
be fulfilled.** v.38 What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I
excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my
word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine
own voice or **by the voice of my servants, it is the same**.”* [D&C
1:37-38](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.37-38?lang=eng#36)

1831 November 3, D&C 133 The Saints are commanded to prepare for the
Second Coming… come to Zion, and prepare for the great day of the Lord
*v.17 For behold, the Lord God hath sent forth the angel crying through
the midst of heaven, saying: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make
his paths straight, **for the hour of his coming is nigh--** **v.18 When
the Lamb shall stand upon Mount Zion**, and with him a **hundred and
forty-four thousand**,* [sounds like the Jehovah Witness] *having his
Father’s name written on their foreheads.* [D&C
133:17,18](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/133.17,18?lang=eng#16)
(Note: Mount Zion is Independence, Missouri)

1831 December 1, Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were working on a
revision of the KJ Bible when, on 1 December 1831, the Lord called them
to go on a mission for a season. The Prophet Joseph Smith recorded:
*“From this time until the 8th or 10th of January, 1832, myself and
Elder Rigdon continued to preach in Shalersville, Ravenna, and other
places, setting forth the truth, vindicating the cause of our Redeemer;
**showing that the day of vengeance was coming *upon this generation*
like a thief in the night**; that prejudice, blindness and darkness
filled the minds of many, and caused them to persecute the true Church,
and reject the true light; by which means we did much towards allaying
the excited feelings which were growing out of the scandalous letters
then being published in the Ohio Star, at Ravenna, by the
before-mentioned apostate, Ezra Booth. On the 10th of January, I
received the following revelation [*[*D&C
73*](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/73?lang=eng)*]
making known the will of the Lord concerning the Elders of the Church
until the convening of the next conference.”* (History of the Church,
vol. 1, p.241)

1832 July, Signs of the Times: “*FOREIGN NEWS. It is a day of strange
appearances. Every thing indicates something more than meets the eye.
Every nation is opening events, which astonish mankind: Even the heart
of man begins to melt at the prospect before it. The unquenchable thirst
for news; the continuity of emigration; the wars and rumors of wars,
with many other signs of the distress of nations, from the old world,
(as it is called across the Ocean) whispers so loud to the
understanding, that he that runs may read the label on the Eastern sky:
**The end is nigh.** *

*France is filled with a spirit of rebellion, and when the **Cholera**
was sweeping its thousands, mobs were collecting to slay their tens of
thousands. While the hospitals were crowded with the sick, and the
groans of the dying filled the air, the fashionable French were holding
Cholera Balls [high-society masked charity balls] and dancing at the
judgments of the almighty. *

*In England, where an anxious multitude have been waiting for
Reformation in government for years, disappointment is destruction. The
house of Lords has rejected the Reform bill, and the proud hearted
Englishman says-Reform or Revolution! No stop there: for the sound comes
across the Atlantic. Reform or ruin! *

*All the Kingdoms of the East seem to be preparing to act the part
allotted to them, when the Lord rebukes the nations. As on a morning of
some, great festival, the church bell, the cannon, the small arms, the
music, and the cheers of the multitude, arouse all to what is going on,
and thunders to man: Behold the day! so also earthquakes wars, and
rumors of wars, the distress of nations, the constant tide of emigration
to the West, the wide spreading ravages of the **Cholera** Morbus, and
the joy of the Saints of God as they come out of Babylon, alarms the
world, and whispers to every mortal, watch ye, **for the time is at hand
for the second coming of Jesus Christ,** the Redeemer of Israel, with
peace on earth and good will to man. **Watch the signs of his coming,**
that ye be not deceived.”* (THE EVENING AND THE MORNING STAR, Vol. I,
Independence, MO. July, 1832. No. 2.)
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ems/v1n02.htm>

1832 September 22, *“v.4 **This is the word of the lord**… v.5 For
verily **this generation shall not all pass away until an house***
[*[Missouri
Temple]*](http://mit.irr.org/files/joseph-smiths-missouri-temple-prophecy.pdf)
***shall be built** unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest upon it, which
cloud shall be even the glory of the Lord [Second Coming], which shall
fill the house. v.31 … which house shall be **built unto the Lord in
this generation**, upon the consecrated spot as I have appointed.”*<span
id="32" class="anchor"></span> * *[100+1832=1932] [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1)

“v.37 *Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and
the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.
v.38 What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not
myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall
not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or
by the voice of my servants, it is the same. v.37 For behold, and lo,
the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true,
and the truth abideth forever and ever. Amen.”* [(D&C
1:37-39)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.37-39?lang=eng)

The Lord, speaking through Malachi, said that “*he would send his
messenger to prepare the way for his coming, and he would **come swiftly
to his temple.”*** [(Malachi
3:1–2)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/mal/3.1-2?lang=eng#0)

*"A temple shall be reared in the Center Stake of Zion **in the
generation in which the revelation was given**."* [(George Q. Cannon,
Journal of Discourses, vol. 10, p.
334](http://journalofdiscourses.com/10/63), October 23, 1864) [(D&C
57:1-3)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/57.1-3?lang=eng)

JST KJ Bible, Matthew 24:34 *“Verily I say unto you, this generation, in
which these things shall be shown forth, shall not pass away until all I
have told you shall be fulfilled.”*

1832 September, *“Within four years from September 1832, there will not
be one wicked person left in the United States; that the righteous will
be gathered to Zion (Independence, Missouri,) and that there will be no
President over these United States at that time…. I do hereby assert and
declare that in four years from the date thereof [1832], every sectarian
and religious denomination in the United States, shall be broken down,
and every Christian shall be gathered unto the Mormonites, and the rest
of the human race shall perish.”*

(High Priest, Martin Harris, quoted in [*Mormonism
Unveiled,*](http://www.truthnet.org/Mormon/Mormonismunveiled/1smith_harris.htm)[](http://www.truthnet.org/Mormon/Mormonismunveiled/)
by Eber D. Howe, Painesville, Ohio, pub. 1834, p. 14)

1832 December 25, <span id="8" class="anchor"></span>Civil War or Second
Coming Prophecy: *“…thus with the sword and by bloodshed the inhabitants
of the earth shall mourn and with famine and plague, and Earthquake and
the thunder of heaven and the fierce and vivid lightning also shall the
inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath and indignation and
chastening hand of an Almighty God untill the consumption decribed
decreed that the cry of the saints and of blood of the saints shall
cease to come up into the ears of the Lord of Saboath from the earth to
be avenged of their enimies, wherefore **stand ye in holy places and be
not moved untill the day of the Lord come, for be hold it cometh quickly
saith the Lord.** Amen”* [D&C
87:8](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/87.8?lang=eng)
<http://www.utlm.org/onlinebooks/changech14.htm>

<http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/revelation-25-december-1832-dc-87#!/paperSummary/revelation-25-december-1832-dc-87&p=1>

1832 December 27, <span id="87" class="anchor"></span>“*v.87 **For not
many *days* hence** and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a
drunken man; and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give
light; and the moon shall be bathed in blood; and the stars shall become
exceedingly angry, and shall cast themselves down as a fig that falleth
from off a fig tree…”* [D&C
88:86–116](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.86-116?lang=eng#85)

1833 January 4, [(Joseph Smith
Prophesied)](http://books.google.com/books?id=hVYoAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA25&lpg=PA25&dq=N.+E.+Seaton,+Esq.,+editor+of+the&source=bl&ots=csUcbfWlyJ&sig=BTX0j3c7vgc9nOV1cfrB1TNIxOI&hl=en&sa=X&ei=9AaGVMTLFMLuoATlq4GwBA&ved=0CCsQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q=N.%20E.%20Seaton%2C%20Esq.%2C%20editor%20of%20the&f=false)
*“by the authority of Jesus Christ that **not many years shall pass
away** before the wicked **of this generation** will be swept from off
the face of the land and the Lost Ten Tribes will be gathered to
Missouri, and that The people of the Lord… have already commenced to
gather together to Zion, which is in the state of Missouri; therefore I
declare unto you the warning which the Lord has commanded me to declare
unto **this generation**…. The hour of His judgment is Come. He exhorts
all to Flee to Zion, before the overflowing scourge overtake you, for
**there are now those living upon the earth whose eyes shall not be
closed in death** [100+1833=1933] until they see all these things, which
I have spoken, fulfilled.”* (Joseph Smith, Jr., Jan. 4, 1833, [History
of the Church, vol. 1, chapter 22, p.
315-316)](http://www.boap.org/LDS/History/History_of_the_Church/Vol_1)

1833 January 23, Joseph Smith:<span id="420" class="anchor"></span>
*"... my father presented himself,... I asked of him a father's
blessing, which he granted by laying his hands upon my head, in the name
of Jesus Christ, and declaring that **I should continue in the Priest's
office until Christ comes**."* [(History of the Church, vol. 1, p.
323)](http://www.boap.org/LDS/History/History_of_the_Church/Vol_1)

1833 Note: The marriage of Fanny Alger age 16 and Joseph Smith age 28,
most likely took place in Kirtland, Ohio sometime in 1833.
<http://www.wivesofjosephsmith.org/> “*There is evidence that Joseph was
a polygamist by 1831”* [(D&C 132
Heading)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/132) (see July
17, 1831) In all of the [Patriarchal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsjssrindex.pdf)
on this list (1833-1840), there is no reference to polygamy or
polyandrous relationships; all spouses are singular.

1833 January, SIGNS OF THE TIMES. Signs and appearances are such, that
even the most unbelieving dread coming events; and no wonder, for when
the Lord comes out of his place to rebuke the nations, all hearts are
faint, and all knees do tremble. Every man has a right to do as he
pleases, being an agent to himself, but we ardently hope, while such
important signs, and extraordinary commotions, as:-

The **Cholera** spreading over the whole earth;

The plague breaking out in India;

The Revolutions of Europe;

The Dissolution of South Carolina from the Union;

The gathering of the saints to Zion, and

The assembling of the Jews at Jerusalem,

are passing in rapid succession, that some will turn to God and live.
Such strange movements of men; such dreadful sickness; oh! such fearful
looking for the ***wrath of God to be poured out upon *this
generation****, together with the evidence of Holy writ, ought ***to
convince every man in the world, that the end is near***; that the
harvest is ripe, and that the angels are reaping down the earth!

It is certainly a day of dilemmas: The political party that has just
been crowned with victory, shudders at the prospect before it. Horror,
with all its fearful gloom slackens in one place, and commotion, or
rebellion, with all its crimson warnings, reddens in another, showing,
if ever there was a time when the sword of the Lord hung by a single
hair, over the heads of them that have seated themselves round the feast
table, ***it is now***. The man that undertakes to run FROM the
pestilence, runs to danger: and he that would leave Europe because her
kingdoms are crumbling to pieces, to come to America, beholds the links
in the chain of Freedom break, as the new ropes in the hands of Sampson:
and he looks, but looks in vain for peace, ***for the hour is nigh***,
when it shall be taken from the earth. In the east there is trouble; in
the west there is fear; in the north there is no peace, and in the south
there is consternation. Well may we exclaim, all things must change: but
virtue shall endure forever. (THE EVENING AND THE MORNING STAR, Vol. I.
Independence, MO, January 1833, No. 8.
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ems/v1n08.htm> )

1833 November 7, *“About two o'clock the next morning we were called up
by the cry of **signs in the heavens**. We arose, and to our great
astonishment all the firmament seemed enveloped in splendid fireworks,
as if every star in the broad expanse had been hurled from its course,
and sent lawless through the wilds of ether. Thousands of bright meteors
were shooting through space in every direction, with long trains of
light following in their course. This lasted for several hours, and was
only closed by the dawn of the rising sun. **Every heart was filled with
joy at this majestic display of signs and wonders, showing the near
approach of the coming of the Son of God.”*** [(Autobiography of Parley
Parker Pratt)](http://www.boap.org/LDS/Early-Saints/PPPratt.html)

1831 August 13, *"v.6 Behold, I, the Lord, have brought you together
that the promise might be fulfilled, that the faithful among you should
be preserved and rejoice together in the land of Missouri. I the Lord,
promise the faithful and cannot lie."* [(D&C
62:6)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/62.6?lang=eng)
(See 1833 December 16)

---Read these together---

1833 December 16, “*v.16 Therefore, let your hearts be comforted
concerning Zion [Independence, Missouri]; for all flesh is in mine
hands; be still and know that **I am God.**  v.17 **Zion shall not be
moved out of her place**, notwithstanding her children are
scattered.*<span id="20" class="anchor"></span> * v.20 And, behold,
**there is none other place appointed than that which I have appointed;
neither shall there be any other place appointed than that which I have
appointed, for the work of the gathering of my saints**—*<span id="21"
class="anchor"></span> * v.21 **Until the day cometh when there is found
no more room for them [at Independence, Missouri];** and then I have
other places which I will appoint unto them, and they shall be called
stakes, for the curtains or the strength of Zion.*<span id="22"
class="anchor"></span> *v. 22 Behold, **it is my will, that all** they
who call on my name, and worship me according to mine everlasting
gospel, **should gather together, and stand in holy places**;*<span
id="23" class="anchor"></span> *v. 23** And *prepare for the revelation
which is to come, [second coming]* when the veil of the covering of my
temple, in my tabernacle, which hideth the earth, shall be taken off,
and *all flesh shall see me* together.”***
[(D&C101:16,17,20-23)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/101.16,17,20-23?lang=eng#16)
NOTE: This revelation was given one month after being expulsed from
Jackson Co., MO. Nine years later Joseph Smith declared *"The whole of
America is Zion from North to South"* (History of the Church, Vol. 6, p.
318). Brigham Young declared that Zion was, *"...at the City of the
Great Salt Lake, in the valleys of the Mountains, in the settlements of
Utah Territory."* [(Journal of Discourses, vol. 2,
p.253)](http://journalofdiscourses.com/2/40) Why does God keep changing
his mind; did he lie?

1833 December 18, Hyrum Smith received two patriarchal blessings, one
from his father, Joseph Smith Sr. and one from his brother, Joseph Smith
Jr. Hyrum Smith *“…**Thou shalt *live* to see thy Redeemer come in the
clouds of heaven** and thou shalt lift up thy head with gladness and
(have?) the holy throng with uplifted hands. Thou shalt stand before
Kings and Rulers and bear testimony of the Lord…”* (Given by Joseph
Smith Sr.) Hyrum Smith *“…when he is in trouble and great tribulation
has come upon him, he shall remember the God of Jacob and he [God] shall
**shield him** from the power of Satan. …**power shall be upon him that
in his old age** his name may be magnified on the earth. Behold he shall
be blessed with an **abundance of riches of the earth**: gold, silver,
and treasures of precious stones, of diamonds and patina. His chariots
shall be numerous and his cattle shall multiply abundantly: horses,
mules, asses, camels, dromedaries, and swift beasts…”* (Given by Joseph
Smith Jr. in Kirtland, December 18, 1833 and recorded September 1835.
Oliver Cowdery, clerk and recorder.
<http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/blessing-for-hyrum-smith-circa-15-28-september-1835>
)

Note: Hyrum didn’t stand before Kings and Rulers, with a abundance of
riches of the earth, he didn’t live to an old age, he didn’t see the
Redeemer come; instead he died un-shielded by God in the Carthage Jail,
June 27, 1844. [(Carthage
Trial)](http://law2.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/carthage/carthagehome.html)

1834, The Church changed its name to *The Church of the Latter Day
Saints; omitting Jesus Christ altogether*. Was it because of the
teaching of the 1890 second coming? Manifesto on Polygamy: Since 1840,
The Church fought the US Government over the polygamy issue. Were the
Saints waiting for the second coming to resolve this issue? [*(An
Address to All Believers in
Christ,*](http://www.utlm.org/onlinebooks/address5.htm) David Whitmer,
Richmond, Missouri, pub. 1887)

1833 Book of Commandments; now known a D&C. “Church of Christ”

<http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/book-of-commandments-1833?locale=eng&p=5>

1835 Doctrine and Covenants “Jesus Christ name was removed”

<http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/doctrine-and-covenants-1835?locale=eng&p=9>

1834 April 3, “*v.1 Verily I [Jesus Christ] say unto you, my friends, I
give unto you counsel, and a commandment, concerning all the properties
which belong to the order which I commanded to be organized and
established, to be a **United Order**, and an **everlasting order** for
the benefit of my church, and for the salvation of men **until I come**
[Second Coming].*” ([D&C
104:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/104.1?lang=eng))
The United Order did fail and was disbanded, and it’s been over 180
years and Christ still has not returned.

1834 circa August, DEAR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS. [Citizens of Painesville,
Ohio]

*“I might… bear testimony to the things I believe and feeling, as I do,
the importance of **warning my fellow men to prepare themselves for the
great day of the Lord**, or in other words, for **the second coming of
the Son of Man**, has induced me to endeavor by a letter to show, that
that **day is near** at hand; and that it is necessary to be prepared to
meet the Son of God when he shall appear in the clouds of heaven… Now, I
will attempt to show, that the day of the Lord: the coming of the Son of
God, is near at hand: probably **he will make his appearance in the
clouds of heaven within the *present generation***…”* [100+1835=1935]
Edward Partridge” [Presiding Bishop]

BISHOP PARTRIDGE'S LETTER. Time and space forbid lengthy comments on
this production. It was forwarded us last August, with a request to
either publish it, or forward the manuscript to the Hon. S. ROSA, of
Painesville. On examination, we thought that it was an article fraught
with so much necessary intelligence, that it could not fail to interest
our patrons. With this letter we received another, requesting us,
(should we publish it,) to give it entire in one number.-Till now we
could not devote the space. And **though it has been long written, it
has not lost any of its important truths, nor will it fail, if carefully
examined, to impress the reader with a reverence toward God, and an
anxiety to be prepared for his coming.** Bishop Partridge is well known
to the individual addressed, and to the citizens of Painesville,<span
id="63" class="anchor"></span> among whom he formerly resided; and we
cannot but believe, that that intelligent community will treat with due
respect, and appropriate credence, this plain, easy, consistent, and
unvarnished relation of truth, from their former fellow-citizen.
(Editor, Oliver Cowdery) ('THE LATTER DAY SAINTS' MESSENGER AND
ADVOCATE. Vol. I, No. 4, Kirtland, Ohio, pub. January, 1835, edited by
Oliver Cowdery, And published by Frederick G. Williams.
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ma/v1n04.htm> )

<https://archive.org/stream/latterdaysaintsm01unse#page/56/mode/2up/search/%22latter+day%22>

1834 August 16, Joseph Smith’s letter to Lyman Wight, Edward Partridge,
John Corrill, Isaac Morley, and others of the High Council of Zion:
“*But in case the excitement continues to be allayed, and peace
prevails, use every effort to prevail on the churches to gather to those
regions and locate themselves, to be in readiness to move into Jackson
county in two years from the eleventh of September[1836] next, **which
is the appointed time for the redemption of Zion**.”* (Smith, History of
the Church 2:145)

1834 Aug. 24, DEAR BROTHER, [William A. Cowdery] I find many who are
willing to acknowledge that God is pouring out judgment upon the earth,
in our day; but few will admit that he has revealed it to man. This I
conclude, is because they deny the possibility of prophets in these last
days; for Amos said (3:7) that, "Surely the lord God will do nothing,
but he revealeth his secret to his servants the prophets." So, admitting
that ***the cholera is a judgment sent by the Lord to chasten or rebuke
the world***, which thousands do, they must admit one of two things:
Either God has prophets in these last days unto whom he reveals "his
secrets," or Amos was no true prophet; but spake lies in the name of the
Lord. Because, if this sickness is a judgment, it certainly was once a
secret, to men, not yet unfolded for either their instruction or
correction…

We are aware that there are various complaints and diseases common to
various countries and climates, these, though never considered by the
world at large to be special judgments, sent by the hand of the Lord, it
may strictly be said are his rod to humble men…

Go to the other places of which I have mentioned, and you find this to
be the case. Visit the far south, and the yellow fever, with other
disorders, come periodically, and take from the earth their thousands;
but no agues, nor consumptions. Such has been the course pursued by a
Maker with his creatures, during our day, and for generations gone-by;
but no mention of the cholera. Why not? men were the same, formed of the
same materials, and residing in the same climates.

It is said, that this disease first made its appearance at Jessore,
about 100 miles south of Calcutta, (India,) in August, 1817. To mark its
rapid progress, as it laid desolate villages and cities, would cause
one's bosom to be pained for the afflictions of men! We can scarce form
an estimate of its ravages in that remote country for 12 or 13 years.
Towns were depopulated, and countries laid waste as the angel of death
marched forth to execute his commission! till it spread from the gulf of
Tartary to the Mediterranean sea! A once favored land, where light and
knowledge beamed from the regions of glory to illuminate the path of
men, though long since sunk in darkness, once more felt the chastening
hand of God.

In 1830 the Destroyer began to execute his work in Europe, and the
first, it is said, who were doomed to suffer by him, were the
inhabitants resident at the mouth of the Volga on the Caspian sea. Soon,
you know, desolation marked his course over Europe, and by his hand
many, very many, were removed from time. In May, or June, 1832 he set
foot upon our shores.-The people of Quebec felt the scourge, and soon a
great part of the continent were groaning under the affliction. I have
marked its progress these two years with some minuteness. In 1832 it
spread from the North to the South; in 1833 it carried thousands to
their long homes in the South and West, far West, and in 1834 it comes,
like a "strong man armed!" and extends in rapid strides from South to
North! What can stay this mighty Destroyer in his course? can the skill
of men who have, for their whole life, studied the secrets of disease to
render usefulness to their fellow-men? No! the wisdom of the wise falls
useless, while the ocean, the fortress, "the high tower," the lofty
mountains, streaked with pearling streams, with mighty rivers rolling to
seek their equilibrium, are also rendered no place of security!-he flies
o'er oceans, he walks o'er countries, he spreads terror and dismay in
all ranks and conditions of men, and scatters the "seeds of death" in
all climates, to execute his great commission, till, in fact, it is, as
the prophet said should be, a vexation only to hear the report!

I have, myself, passed through towns, cities, and villages, as well as
sections of our country, where hundreds were, by him, snatched from time
to eternity, in an hour. I have seen the effects of his desolating march
and witnessed the pale countenances of men who were just touched with
his finger, and left as monuments of his power, with fallen cheeks and
sunken eyes! I have seen the bereaved husband, the fatherless child, and
the disconsolate widow, and others whose faces wore a settled gloom, and
when met in the streets, would start as from a revery of death, or a
converse with departed friends! Nor do I presume that my eyes have
witnessed a beginning of what others have experienced. But I will assure
you, that a thinking man's mind will be occupied with no ordinary
reflections, to walk in the house of death, and to be surrounded by a
power sent from God to chasten the world! In truth, it will awaken every
faculty of the soul, and call forth the strictest scrutiny of one's
religion, to know whether he is prepared to meet the judgment, if he has
not faith to stand. Amid this mighty contagion, or, not properly
contagion, but desolation, one will stand with feelings of reverence
when he knows that it is a scourge of the Almighty; and as he reflects
upon the system on which his hope is based, he will stand with fearless
contemplation, and say, This is no less than the power of God to prepare
the way for his advent in glory!

The first season after the Destroyer visited our land, you will
recollect to have seen almost all denominations of people professing the
religion of heaven, assembling for prayer and fasting to turn away the
scourge. The several Governors in whose respective States the afflicting
angel came, were very careful to make mention of the same in their
messages to the Legislatures; and what is still more interesting here to
be observed is, that they acknowledged that it was a judgment, a special
judgment…

<span id="190" class="anchor"></span>...I am informed by some of your
previous communications, that the church in your place and vicinity
numbered over sixty. This is pleasing intelligence to us: we are not, as
Paul said some would be in the last days, "unthankful;" but on every
remembrance of his mercy, (and we desire not to be unmindful,) we give
thanks. Yours truly. OLIVER COWDERY. (To W. A. COWDERY, THE EVENING AND
THE MORNING STAR, Vol. II, Liberty, Mo., Aug. 24, 1834, No. 24,
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ems/v2n24.htm>)

1834 September, ADDRESS TO THE PATRONS OF THE EVENING AND THE MORNING
STAR. While looking at this church as it was four years since, or a few
months previous to that time, the mind starts with astonishment, and the
reflection arises in an instant, **What will be its end?** If, in the
short space of four years its numbers have increased to thousands; if,
in the midst of unparalleled persecution and opposition (considering the
form of government under which it exists) it has spread from one side of
the continent to the other; if, where bigotry has walked undisturbed,
and superstition held an unmolested sway; if, in an age when iniquity
abounds, and the love of men waxes cold, it has pursued its steady
course, and found way to the hearts of multitudes, what will be its
standing when half a century shall have passed away? If, amid every
slander imaginable, and every calumny possible, it has gained its
hundreds and thousands, what will be its influence, and what its numbers
when the world shall know the purity of its doctrines, the perfection of
its principles, and the honesty of its followers? If, amid false
representations, and wicked insinuations of men of corrupt hearts,
accusing this innocent body of usurpation, disloyalty, and treason, it
has still progressed, and among the honest, found advocates, what will
be the sound of the flocking to its communion of men of all nations,
when a little time shall pass over, and the beauty and excellence of its
religion shine in the face of all people, and the framers of these
reports be exposed to the just reproach of an abused public, and the
hail shall have swept away the refuge of lies?

In the commencement of this church, and we perfectly recollect the
assertions, it was prophesied that one year would terminate its
existence! One year, and all would see the "delusion," and be convinced
of the "deception!" But one, yes, **four have passed, and yet it
stands!** When persecution raged in one place; when the regions of
darkness emitted its whole band of infernals, and when wrath poured from
the lips of men upon the heads of the Saints that they could not endure,
they have fled where they could be protected, while the influence of
truth was still operating upon hundreds elsewhere; the servants of the
Lord heard with attention; God manifesting himself in mercy, and the
Holy Spirit bearing record of HIS "marvelous work," the church of Christ
has received into its bosom the pure in heart, and angels have borne the
joyful tidings to the regions of glory!

Many have strove to prevent the true knowledge of the principles of our
religion from being introduced into the ranks of men to be investigated
with candor, by slandering the characters of those who were advocating
them, endeavoring thereby to rivet the fetters of superstition and
ignorance upon their followers with a firmness which defies all power to
unlock them, thus preparing them to be consumed when the great day of
burning comes, because their own systems could not stand the strict
scrutiny of truth contained in those sacred records which teach men to
forsake the corruptions of the world, for the wiser course and richer
reward promised therein! But if such have not become convinced of their
weakness yet, after pursuing in a path which brings no joy, a season
longer, perhaps they may abandon it. Whether they do or do not the
purposes of God will be accomplished. While one man has cried
"delusion," another "false prophets," and a third has reported a long
catalogue of falsehoods of his own making, to blast the characters of
men whom he never saw nor had a spark of evidence against, the fourth
has seen the iniquity of the whole, and the first opportunity, with a
thankful heart, embraced the gospel and rejoiced in the assurance
manifested by the Spirit of the Lord?

On occasions like the present the mind naturally goes **back to the
starting point**, or period when the world first heard the sound of the
fulness [fullness] of the everlasting gospel in these days; when a few
only were to be found on earth who had stepped forward into the new
covenant, and proved by an experimental knowledge the word of an apostle
to be true, "He that lives godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer
persecution." However various may be the opinions of men, no one thing
is more certain than this: In a corrupt generation, when the Lord spake
to man, those hearing and obeying that voice, always have suffered
reproach and abuse. It may be said that false systems as well as true
ones have suffered their share of persecution, and that this is not a
correct way to judge what is right and what is not. The Savior was
persecuted, the apostles were persecuted, the church in the days of Nero
and his successors, for a season, was persecuted, the Waldenses and
others were persecuted, the Baptists and Quakers in New England were
persecuted, the followers of Anna Lee, Jemima Wilkinson, and others were
also persecuted, and were we to say that all who have been persecuted
for their religion's sake were equally correct, would be to rank them in
one general mass and seat them down in the same kingdom, partakers of
the same joys and blessings: for, if the word of the Lord is true, all
are blessed who are persecuted for his sake. How then shall we determine
who are correct, since so many have been persecuted? The Savior was
true, or we are yet in our sins, our faith is vain, and our bodies
destined to be prisoners to the grave forever! But did he persecute? did
his saints after him? if he nor they did not, unless it can now be
proven from his word that the principle is correct, this fact is
established, that those who persecute are the children of "that wicked
one." From these items, without saying that this one is correct or
incorrect, who have been persecuted for their religion, if ever a fact
did exist, or a truth sound from heaven in the ears of man, those who
have persecuted this church to which we have a privilege of being a
member, reproachfully and slanderously called "Mormonite," are, as has
just been said, of their father the devil, and if they ever had
communion or fellowship with the Lord they have forsaken his house, left
his fold, and like wandering stars, filthy dreamers, or beasts of
corruption, abandoned to be taken and destroyed in their own wickedness!

*Since June, 1832, various changes have been noticed by the observing
mind, and particularly by the man who is **looking for the fulfillment
of the words of the ancient prophets [second coming],** as well as the
declarations of the Lord Jesus. Abroad he has witnessed one calamity
follow another, and one desolation march in quick succession in the
train of a former, until nations have felt their weight, and kingdoms,
contries [countries], and wide spread empires, withered at the touch of
the judgments of the Lord. War, with its horrors and distresses, has
summoned its thousands to appear before the great tribunal; the same
spirit of ambition and thirst for power has been previlent [prevalent]
among the great; the weak have been destined to relinquish their claims
of authority by combinations of different kingdoms; the yoke of
oppression has alternately passed into the hands of different masters;
the low and oppressed have struggled in vain for freedom, while time, in
its same rapid and mighty course, **has been bringing near and more
near** the august period when the sun is to become as sackcloth of hair,
the moon turn to blood, the stars fall from heaven, and the powers of
heaven be shaken!*

*No man, in his sober senses, with the word of God in his hand, can
reflect one moment upon these scenes without being filled with awe! In
distant lands, now abandoned to darkness, where human beings bow down
and worship the work of their own hands, and call for assistance upon a
block of wood of their own carving, have also felt the sting of
pestilence, the angel of death, and the calamity of war! Whose heart,
then, when gazing upon the finger of Omnipotence, as it moves creations
round, and orders all things for the accomplishment of his own purposes,
will not be touched with reverence as he thus sees the glorious era
hastening on when the redeemed, yes, the ransomed of the Lord shall be
assembled, his elect gathered home, wickedness and corruption destined
to dwell in their own place, while peace and joys everlasting crown the
blessed?*

*Said the Lord: "You shall hear of wars and rumors of wars." But our
friends often say, that since Noah the same has been heard, and the end
is not yet. Said the Lord: "There shall be earthquakes in diverse
places." But say the world, earthquakes have desolated countries and
kingdoms centuries previous, and the end is not yet. If there is not a
particular meaning attached to each of these assertions, why were they
ever spoken? Unless the Savior had his mind upon the future period,
which should roll on in its course, and bring these sayings to the
fullest degree of plainness to be understood, why did he speak them? Did
HE not know that the inhabitants of the earth had experienced the
calamity occasioned by the march of war? Did HE not know that his
followers were acquainted with the fact, that others before them had
felt the hand of justice and judgment in the desolations of earthquakes?
Eighteen hundred years have passed since these words **[of the second
coming],** were spoken; war has succeeded war; blood has flowed after
blood; the cry of the widow and orphan has saluted the skies; man has
invariably followed the same course, and the world exists, the elements
remain, and the end is not yet! Century has slept after century;
wickedness has borne its accustomed sway; the great deceiver has blinded
and led captive his millions; truth has fled, virtue ceased,
righteousness failed from off the earth, and the boaster against God has
raised his head in blasphemies, from age to age, and the end is not yet!
Truly spake an ancient apostle, when he said they would say, "Where is
the promise of his coming?" The earth has rolled round; the different
worlds have continued to move in their regular order; the sun is still
brilliant; the moon shines upon earth, and the end is not yet!*

*Thus passes the world along-unwilling to acknowledge the hand of God in
his providences, while pestilence stalks at their doors, and the waster
consumes at mid-night; the plague devouring its thousands, & the
destroyer performing his desolating march in the sight of all; the voice
of the Most High heard from his holy habitation, and the angels flying
in the midst of heaven; the earth just on the eve of rocking to and fro
like the waves of the great ocean, and eternity filled with pain for the
corruption of man; the holy messengers from above holding the four winds
while he that holds the keys seals the servants of God in their
foreheads; the warning voice going forth for all to be READY, and the
light of truth illuminating the hearts of the poor, lest when HE comes
faith shall not be found; the signs of his near approach beginning to be
manifested, by tokens which are not to be misinterpreted, and the hearts
of many ready to receive the admonition-Prepare! the church, the bride,
the Lamb's wife adorning herself with her beautiful attire, and decking
herself with the wedding garments, making all things ready for the
word-He comes! and anxiously waiting the glorious period when the
everlasting doors, even the gates of the celestial city shall again be
lifted up, that the King of glory may descend to be crowned Lord and
KING OF ALL!*

*But the scenes abroad are not all which have transpired since 1832 to
awaken the studious mind to reflection. At home he has found a field for
meditation, calculated to arouse the intellect and call up the words of
the ancient prophets, to see whether they, in the midst of their
heavenly visitations, touched upon a period when perplexity and strife
should rack the systems and inventions of the wise, as at this day. We
have seen this liberal government tossed to and fro by the ambition of
men; the great principles of union and social compact severed at a
touch, and war, civil war, with all its horrors, threaten us with
desolation! "Rumors of wars" have surely come upon us! We have seen men
professing the religion of heaven rise up against their neighbors "to
put them to death!" We have seen a community composing a part of this
government defy law, despise justice, and tread upon the innocent
because they were weak! We have witnessed mob after mob rise up in our
most populous cities, and towns, and trample upon good order with the
reclessness [recklessness] of the savage! Yes, we have seen more! The
Destroyer has set foot upon our shores, and summoned thousands to their
"long homes!" His march has been rapid, and his path has proven his
commission! Amid calamities like these we can only say to all, while
these scenes are transpiring, and new ones are bursting upon us, **let
us be ready, for HIS coming is near!***

OLIVER COWDERY. (THE EVENING AND THE MORNING STAR, Vol. II, Kirtland,
Ohio, September, 1834, No. 24,
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ems/v2n24.htm>)

<span id="4" class="anchor"></span>1834 Nov. 25 *v.4 And again, verily I
say unto you, **the coming of the Lord draweth nigh**, and it overtaketh
th*<span id="5" class="anchor"></span>*e world as a thief in the night.
 v.5 Therefore, gird up your loins, that you may be the children of
light, and that day shall not overtake you as a thief.* [D&C
106:4–5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/106.4-5?lang=eng#3)

1835 February 1st, (Letter written by Orson Pratt to:) *“Brother Oliver
Cowdery, Brother Barns and myself [Orson Pratt] preached twice in the
court house at Brookville, Indiana. We were kindly received by the
people of that village, and were solicited to tarry longer, but we could
not conveniently: it was the first time the people in that place had
heard concerning the principles of our faith, and it was somewhat
marvelous to them, perhaps rendered more so in consequence of **a short
debate which lasted about three or four hours, principally upon the
second coming of Christ.** Brookville Feb. 1, 1835.”* (THE LATTER DAY
SAINTS' MESSENGER AND ADVOCATE. Vol. I. No. 6. Kirtland, Ohio, pub.
March. 1835. <http://www.centerplace.org/history/ma/v1n06.htm> )

1835 Feb. 14, **[1891 second coming prediction]** "President Smith then
stated that the meeting had been called, **because God commanded it**;
and it was made known to him **by vision** and **by the Holy Spirit** it
was the will of God that those who went to Zion [Independence, Missouri]
with a determination to lay down their lives, if necessary, should be
ordained to the ministry, and go forth to \***prune the vineyard** for
the last time, or **the coming of the Lord, which was nigh; even
fifty-six years** [56+1835=1891] should \***wind up the scene**…” The
Three Witnesses laid their hands upon **Lyman E. Johnson**, and gave a
blessing; in the name of Jesus Christ… and he [Lyman] shall **live until
the gathering is accomplished**.... and **shall see the Savior come and
stand upon the earth** with power and great glory… [(HOC, vol. 2,
chapter 12,
p.188)](http://www.boap.org/LDS/History/History_of_the_Church/Vol_II)
Josephs brother, **William Smith's** blessing stated: "**He shall be
preserved and remain on the earth, until Christ shall come** to take
vengeance on the wicked" [(HOC, vol. 2, chapter 12,
p.191)](http://www.boap.org/LDS/History/History_of_the_Church/Vol_II)
**Heber C. Kimball's** blessing was… That he might receive visions; the
ministration of angels, and hear their voice; and even **come into the
presence of God**… that angels may waft him from place to place,
[Earth-Moon-Sun-Planets] and that he **may stand unto the coming of our
Lord**.” **{Orson Hyde's** Blessing: …that **he *shall* stand on the
earth and bring souls till Christ comes.** …he *shall* have power to
smite the earth with pestilence; to divide waters, and lead through the
Saints; he *shall* go from land to land, and from sea to sea; he *shall*
be like one of the three Nephites. ([*Mellennial Star*, vol. 16, page
206](https://archive.org/stream/latterdaysaintsm15live#page/206/mode/1up)
The word **shall** was changed to **may** when reprinted in [HOC, vol.
2, chapter 12,
p.191)](http://www.boap.org/LDS/History/History_of_the_Church/Vol_II)**}**
(Joseph Smith, Feb. 14, 1835, [History of the Church, vol. 2, chapter
12,
p.182-91)](http://www.boap.org/LDS/History/History_of_the_Church/Vol_II)
Note: \*The phrases *prune the vineyard & the winding up* is used in
many of the [Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
given by Joseph Smith Sr.

1835 Feb. 14, Several men were blessed by Joseph Smith Jr. and the three
witnesses, including Brigham Young, and Heber C. Kimball, that they
would *“**see the Saviour come** and stand on the Earth with power and
great glory,” and **“live until the gathering was accomplished.”***
Brigham Young was blessed to *“**go forth and gather the Elect
preparatory to the great day of the coming of the Lord”*** (Minutes,
Kirtland, Ohio, 14–15 Feb. 1835; handwriting of Warren Cowdery; in
Minute Book 1, pp. 147–154; CHL.)

1835 Feb 14, **[1881 second coming prediction]** Oliver B. Huntington's:
On the 14th of Feb. 1835, Joseph Smith said that “***God had revealed to
him that the coming of Christ would be within 56 years,”*** which being
added to 1835 shows that before 1891 and the 14th of Feb. **“*the
Saviour of the world would make his appearance again upon the earth and
the winding up scene take place.”*** In connection with this event, was
related by my brother Dimick Huntington, the fact that when Joseph and
Hyrum Smith submitted in their feelings to consent to give themselves up
to the state mob at Nauvoo Illinois, after they had passed the
Mississippi River.  Joseph said ****"if they shed my blood it shall
shorten this work 10 years.”** That taken from 1891 would reduce the
time to **1881 which if the true time within which the Saviour should
come**** much must be crowded into 6
years.[](http://www.shields-research.org/General/LDS_Leaders/1stPres/Joseph_Smith/56_Year.htm#19.)
(Oliver B. Huntington, Autobiography II: 129 (Typescript, BYU Special
Collections)) [10-1891=1881]

NOTE: When you see the word ZION in the below patriarchal blessings;
this is referring to Independence, Missouri.

1833-1840 Joseph Smith Sr. gave [Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
to some **forty recipients**, who were told **they would not die before
the second coming of Jesus Christ**! Oliver Cowdery notes: The following
are patriarchal blessings pronounced upon those named, by president
Joseph Smith sen. on the 27th day of August, 1835. There were many
blessings given previous to these, but the book not being obtained until
a few weeks since, it would be difficult to arrange all the blessings as
they were pronounced: indeed this would be impossible as many retained
their blessings in their own hands, not yet having handed them in to be
recorded. All that I shall observe in recording blessings hereafter is,
to give their several dates. This however will not be possible always,
as the clerks have not been particular to note the day and the month.
One remark is necessary: It will be seen, that in the commencement of
this record, I noticed that the first meeting was opened by prayer: this
order is strictly observed in all patriarchal meetings, either by the
one pronouncing the blessings or one whom he appoints. (October 7, 1835.
Oliver Cowdery. Recorder. [Patriarchal Blessing Book 1:16])

1835 circa March, [Charles B.
Thompson](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_B._Thompson), *“For if
thine enemies cast thee into the fire, the flames shall not harm thee;
and if need be that thou pass through the waters, they shall part hither
and thither, at thy command; and thou shalt pass through on dry land.
And thou shalt have power to **waft thyself on the wings of the wind**
as it were, **from place to place**, and **from nation to nation**. And
thou shalt even have power to **translate thyself to Heaven** if thou
desirest it… And thy right of **inheritance in the land of Zion** is
secured unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, to the latest generation.
And if thou desirest it thou shalt **live on the earth, till the coming
of the Son of Man in his glory**, to sit upon the throne of his power,
when the Lord of hosts shall reign over **all flesh, in Mount Zion**,
and in Jerusalem…”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1835 April 30, [Jonathan H.
Hale,](http://www.idahofallsviewlots.com/Ancestor%20Images/JonathanHaleHistory%202.pdf)
*“Thou shalt speak forth marvelous things, and **mountains shall flee
before thee, rivers of water shall be turned out of their courses, and
waters shall be divide at thy word**, if necessary… for thou shalt speak
the words of God in power. Thou shalt have power to **remain in the
flesh and stand when the Lord unveils His face**, and thou shalt receive
a crown of Celestial Glory in the Kingdom of thy God…"* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [Note: In 1891, Johnathan would
be 101]

1835 May 4, [Isaac Morley](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isaac_Morley),
*“Thou shalt ***live* to see the heavens open** and **see thy God in the
flesh**… **Thy days shall be many**, and thou shalt yet do great good in
the cause of thy God. And if thou wilt desire it, thou shalt have thy
desire,- **thou shalt *live* to see the Son of Man come** in the clouds
of heaven, and the **winding up scene of this generation…
***[100+1835=1935] *Thy wife shall also be blessed and receive an equal
portion with thee: she shall be faithful in prayer, and if thy children
are afflicted with sickness in thy absence, she shall have [Priesthood]
**power to heal them** by the prayer of faith…”* (Oliver Cowdery, Clerk
and Recorder. [Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [Note: In 1891, Isaac would be
107]

1835 May 4, [Edward
Partridge](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Partridge),*“Thy name
shall be sealed among the **sanctified**; The Lord will **preserve thy
life till a good old age, and thou shalt also live to see the heavens
opened**, for thou hast desired this thing, and **shalt see the Son of
man in the flesh…** Thy wife shall be blessed also and receive the
desire of her heart; she shall have night visions and thereby know of
thy welfare in thine absence… Thou shall live to **see the redemption of
Zion** and rejoice upon the goodly land.”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1835 June 7, [Burr Riggs](http://www.gapages.com/riggsb1.htm), *“Thou
shalt be mighty: the heavens shall be opened unto thee while thou art in
the flesh, and thine shall behold the upper worlds; **and thou shalt
stand upon the earth, in the flesh, when the Savior comes…** Thou shalt
have power over thy enemies, and if need so be thou shalt have power to
**call down fire from heaven** and destroy them, so as thou mayest be
delivered out of their hands; for none shall have power over thy life to
take it away, unless thou shalt choose to lay it down thyself. Be
faithful and thou **shalt see the winding up scene of this
generation**.* [100+1835=1935] *Amen.* (F. G. Williams. Clerk. Oliver
Cowdery, Recorder.) [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [Note: In 1891, Edward would be
104]

1835 August 27, [ Martin
Harris](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Harris_(Latter_Day_Saints)),
“*Thou shalt **stand** upon the earth when the kingdoms of this world
shall **rend**, and the kingdom of heaven **come down**, if thou art
faithful; for, if thou art faithful, thou shalt know Christ more
perfectly, for thou shalt **see him and converse with him face to
face…”*** (Oliver Cowdery, Clerk and Recorder) [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [Note: In 1891, Martin would be
104]

1835 July “Is The End Near?” by Oliver Cowdery, LDS Messenger and
Advocate, July, 1835, pp. 149,150.
<https://archive.org/stream/latterdaysaintsm01unse#page/148/mode/2up/search/%22latter+day%22>

1836 November The Latter Day Glory

<https://archive.org/stream/latterdaysaintsm01unse#page/n405/mode/2up>

344

1836 December 15, Lorenzo Snow, “*thou shalt have **power to translate
thyself** from one **plannet [planet] to annother [another]** - power to
go **to the moon** if thou shalt desire it. Power to preach to the
spirits in prison - power like Enoch to **translate thyself to
heaven**, - thou shalt have power to **rend the vail [veil] of heaven
and see Jesus standing at the right hand of his Father**. Theare [There]
shall not be a mightier man on Earth than thou… The diseased shall send
to thee their **handkerchiefs and aprons and by thy touch their owners
shall be healed**…* *If it be expedient the **Dead shall rise and come
forth** at thy bid[d]ing even those that have long slept in the dust
shall come foarth [forth] to life. Thou shalt have **long life thou
shalt live to the age of Moses** yet not be old, for **old age shall not
come upon thee**, the vigor of thy mind shall not be abated and thy
vigor and strength of thy body shall be preserved. **Thou shalt have
power to stand in the flesh and see Jesus come in the clouds, no power
shall take thy life so long as it shall be useful to thy fellow men.**
Thou shalt preach the gospel so long as theare [there] shall be an ear
to hear or an heart to believe… **Thou shalt sit in council with the one
hundred and forty four thousand *****[sounds like the Jehovah Witness]**
*and shall **stand with the Lamb on Mount Zion** and shall be able to
sing thy song.”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [NOTE: My grandfather was named
after Lorenzo also his grandson!]

1837 January 3rd {Wilford Woodruff made no profession of faith until
1830, his life was not devoid of religion. From reading the Bible he had
felt that ***“the Church of God would be re-established upon the earth’
and that he should live to see it.”*** (History of Wilford Woodruff,
Deseret News, 7 July 1858, p 81) On 29 December 1833 he heard the
preaching of two Mormon Elders… and two days later was baptized… The
Third Journal Book of Wilford Woodruff, January 3, 1837: *“there being
two vacancies in the first quorum we were chosen to fill them, President
Aldrich ordained Elder M. Holmes to this appointment & pronounced great
blessings upon his head.* [*President Zebedee
Coltrin*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zebedee_Coltrin) *ordained me as
a member of the first seventy & pronounced great blessings upon my head
by the spirit of prophecy & revelation some of them I will mention which
are as follows… I should heal the sick, cause the blind to see, the lame
to leap as an heart, the deaf to hear, stop the mouths of lions & raise
the dead to life & waft myself as did Phillip from river to river from
sea to sea & from continuant to continuant for the purpose of preaching
the gospel of Jesus Christ & that I should stand before Kings & Princes
& that they would send for me to receive wisdom knowledge & instruction
at my mouth because they considered me wiser than themselves, in like
manner as the Egyptians sought wisdom at the hand of JOSEPH and that God
would give me a multiplicity of blessings that I should preach to the
nations of the earth & to the inhabitants upon the islands of the sea
**& that I should then return & stand upon Mount Zion in the Flesh even
in Jackson County, Missouri at the Coming of Christ & that I should be
caught up to meet him in the clouds of heaven, for he*** [*[President
Zebedee Coltrin]*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zebedee_Coltrin) ***said
this was the word of God unto me** & also that I should visit COLUB
[Kolob] & preach to the spirits in prison… & that their would be still
**greater blessing** pronounced upon my head…”}* [(Journal of Wilford
Woodruff,](http://www.ristow.us/foswiki/pub/Genealogy/WilfordWoodruffsJournalKrautsPioneerPress/Woodruff_Wilfords_Journal_-_Krauts_Pioneer_Press.pdf)
Jan. 3, 1837 also see The Kirtland Book of Wilford Woodruff, by [Dean C.
Jessee)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dean_C._Jessee)

1837 February 22, Willard Richards, *“Thou shalt become mighty to the
pulling down the strong holds of Satan, and building up the **Redeemer's
kingdom in the Last days**…**Thou shalt have great possessions, for the
treasures** [treasure seeking] **of the earth shall be at thy command…
Death shall have no power over thee, for thou shalt tarry and behold thy
Redeemer coming in the clouds, and shall see him in the flesh**; shall
have power to **bring thy kindred into the kingdom**, who shall
acknowledge thee a man of God…”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 April 13, Wilford Woodruff, *“Yea the **Lord of Glory shall appear
unto thee**. Thou shalt **put thy hands upon his feet and feel his
wounds with thy hands** that thou mayest become a special witness of his
name… Thou shalt **stand in the flesh and see the winding up scene of
this generation**.* [100+1837=1937] *Thou shalt **remain on the earth to
behold the Savior come in** the clouds of heaven. Thou shalt be
**numbered with the 100 & 44.000 ***[sounds like the Jehovah Witness]
*that shall stand upon **Mount Zion** and sing a song… Thou shalt have
access to the **treasures hid in the sand ***[treasure seeking] *to
assist thy necessities. An angel of God shall show thee the **treasures
of the earth ***[treasure seeking] *that thou mayest have riches to
assist thee in gathering many orphan children, to Zion... No power shall
stay thee, **at thy word the winds shall be stayed**,* *Thou shalt
**walk upon the waters**. At thy command the **waters shall be
divided**…* [(Journal of Wilford
Woodruff,](http://www.ristow.us/foswiki/pub/Genealogy/WilfordWoodruffsJournalKrautsPioneerPress/Woodruff_Wilfords_Journal_-_Krauts_Pioneer_Press.pdf)
April 15, 1837 1:142) [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 Circa, Gad Yale, *“thou mayest… have power to **save thy family**
and to bless thy children, that the blessings of heaven may attend them
**to the end,*** ***that they may receive an inheritance in Zion.** Thy
**life shall be long** and thou shalt **see the Redeemer** come in the
clouds… and **it shall be kept by the power of God unto the coming of
the son of man,*** ***and** **thou shalt see the Redeemer in the
flesh**, and know that he is, and thy soul shall be filled with the love
of God. Thou shalt **win thousands** by thy ministry and **bring them to
Zion**. spotless and present them to the lamb…”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [In 1890 Gad will be 106 years
old]

1837 April 15, [Jesse
Turpin,](http://freepages.genealogy.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~rhutch/famhistory/d&ssmith/jesse_turpin_journal_sm.html)
*“Thou shalt have power to **call down fire from heaven**, and if it be
necessary it shall **consume thine enemies**… Thou shalt **stand in the
flesh and see Jesus come** in the clouds of heaven. Shall **stand among
the hundred & forty four thousand ***[sounds like the Jehovah Witness]
*and sing their song: nothing shall be withheld from thee…”*
[(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 April 15, Alexander Lyon, *“God will bless them [your children]*
*and give them an **inheritance in Zion**: **thyself also shall have an
inheritance in the city of Zion**… In the name of Jesus thou shalt
**work mighty miracles among the children of men**… angels shall
minister to thee and instruct thee into the mysteries of the kingdom…
**Thou shalt see great things done in the earth,*** ***Thou shalt see
the salvation of the righteous and the destruction of the wicked. Thou
shalt stand in the flesh and see Jesus.**”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 May 20, Daniel Carter, *“The blessing of God shall fall on thy
posterity. Thy children shall be blest. They shall stand with thee in
the covenant. They shall have a **residence in the City of Zion**. They
shall have with thee an inheritance **in Zion**. They shall become
mighty men in the earth. **They shall stand with the Savior on Mount
Zion. If thou art faithful in keeping the commandments of God,** **thou
shall stand in the flesh when the Lord Jesus shall come in the clouds of
heaven with Power and great glory.” ***[(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 May 23, Henry Harmon, *“**The destroyer shall not have power over
thee to take away thy life**. Thou shalt **behold the Son of God while
thou dost stand in the flesh** and if thou dost seek it with all thy
heart, **thou shalt stand on the earth to behold the Savior come** in
the clouds of heaven, and be caught up to meet him, and thou shalt **see
the end of the wicked**. Thou shalt have an inheritance among the
**sanctified in the flesh** and a seat in the celestial kingdom in
eternity.”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 May 27, James Marvin Adams, *“Thou shalt see the mighty Power of
God in the earth, [and]shalt see the accomplishment of his design and
work. **Thou shalt stand in the flesh with the One Hundred and Forty
Four Thousand ***[sounds like the Jehovah Witness] ***that shalt stand
with the Lamb upon Mount Zion.** Thou shalt please God. No Power on
earth shall hold thee back. The powers of the upper world shall be upon
thee. **If thou desirest it thou shalt have power to translate
thyself.**”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 June 13, Sister Flora Jacobs, *“thou shalt have [Priesthood]
**power** over thy children,* *[Priesthood] **Power** over their hearts
and conduct [Priesthood] **power** over them in sickness thou shall have
[Priesthood]**authority** to lay thy hands on thy children when the
Elders cannot be had and they shall recover diseases shall stand rebuked
The Lord will give thee long life…* *Thou shalt have a place in a
**stake of Zion** shalt have a **residence in the city of Zion,*** *thou
shalt have the treasures of the earth shalt have many Servants & maid…
**if thou hast desired to tarry in the flesh to see the winding up scene
of this generation ***[100+1837=1937] *that desire shall be given thee,*
*if thou hast **desired to see thy Savior it shall be granted thee.”
***[(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 June 27, Aaron Johnson, *“Thy understanding shall be perfect. **You
shall conquer the enemy and gain power over** the world, **the flesh,**
and the devil. Thou shalt be great in the eyes of the great men of this
generation – thou shalt be a councilor – **thou shalt have power over
thy kindred flesh and rejoice with them**.* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 July 17, Lyman Clisby, *“ **thy life Shall be lengthened out to
thee thou mayest tarry [illegible] See the Savoir*** ***come in the
clouds of heaven to see the winding up scene of this Generation***
[100+1837=1937] *thou mayest have the ministering of Angels they shall
instruct thee into the mistries [mysteries] of the kingdom.”*
[(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 July 17, Sister Hannah Clisby, *“let her have vigour of body & mind
**til the Savior Shall come** in the clouds of heaven let angels stand
with her… I say unto thee Sister thou mayest have posterity, in Zion for
Generations to come**, thy years Shall be many, thou shalt live to see
the great things of God,** yea Sister thou mayest **stand in the flesh**
and see **the winding up scene of this generation.*** [100+1837=1937]
***See thy Savior come** in the clouds of heaven.”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 July 22, John Pack, *“**Thou Shalt behold thy Savior*** ***Come**
in the Clouds of heaven with Pour [Power] and great glory… **Thou Shalt
Stand with the lamb thou Shalt belong to the one hundred and forty four
thousand*** [sounds like the Jehovah Witness] *that Shall Stand with the
Lamb on **Mount Zion** Thou Shalt have Pour [Power] over **Treasures hid
in the Sand.** [Treasure seeking]* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 July 22, Sister Julia Ives Pack, *“* ***Thou Shalt be able to stand
on the Earth in the flesh and behold the winding up Scene of this
Generation** thy heart will mourn on the account of the Destruction of
Innocent Children Erelong thou shalt See great Destruction* *in the Land
thou must hold up by faith,* ***Thou shalt have an Inheritance in
Zion.”*** [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [Julia was given all of the same
powers as her husband. The Pack’s blessings are a must read!]

1837 September 14, Letter written; “*To the Saints scattered abroad, the
Bishop and his Counselors of Kirtland send greeting. “Whereas… The
church of Kirtland has, therefore, required at the hand of our beloved
brethren Joseph Smith jun. and Sidney Rigdon Presidents, whom God has
appointed to preside over the whole church, and the persons to whom this
work belongs, that they should go forth, and lay off other stakes of
Zion or places of gathering, so that the poor may have a place of
refuge, or places of refuge, in **the day of tribulation which is coming
swiftly on the earth**. N. K. WHITNEY, R. CAHOON, V. KNIGHT. Palmyra
Portage Co. Ohio, Sept. 14th, 1837.”* (THE LATTER DAY SAINTS' MESSENGER
AND ADVOCATE, Vol. III, No. 12, KIRTLAND, OHIO, SEPTEMBER, 1837.
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ma/v3n12.htm> )

1837 October 2, William McClerry, *“I feel that thou hast not been very
visious [vicious] & wicked in thy Life the Lord is willing that thou
**shouldest live Long in the earth** & enjoy the things of the earth,
**Thou Shalt live to se[e] the winding up s[c]ene of this generation,
*****[100+1837=1937]** ***to See Jesus Christ come in the clouds of
heaven with power & Great Glory, thou Shalt Stand in the flesh with one
hundred forty & four thousands*** [sounds like the Jehovah Witness] *and
sing their song”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [Note: In 1891, William would be
104]

1837 December 5, Sister Roxanna Freeman, *“**no power shall take this
blessing from thee** – …Thou and thy Posterity shall be guests at that
Portal which the **Saviour shall preside, at his comeing** – If thou
wilt exercise faith in God, and in his word, **thou shalt stand in the
flesh at that time – standing in the presence of the Holy ones – Yea
with the sanctified ones on Mount Zion in the presence of the Lamb**. I
dont say unto thee Sister, but that thou mayest full- **Yet thou shalt
stand, in the flesh with thy Saviour, when he shall Preside at that
great and last feast**.”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 December 13, Noah Packard, *“**The destroyer shall not have power
over the[e] to take thy life** because of the sealing power… Thou shalt
have power to rais[e] the dead,* *Mothers shall rejoice, having their
children raised from the dead, and presented to them… thy seed shall
have an **inheritance in Zion** and **shall see the Glory of God**. Thou
shalt stand when the Earth shall real to and fro like a drunken man. yea
in **that day when God shall bring forth all his saints**; and if thou
desirest it with all thy heart thou shalt have have power as Elijah, to
waft thy self to Heaven thou shalt not sleep in the dust for God looks
upon the[e] and loves the[e]. The Angel of his presents [presence] shall
watch over the[e] and thou shalt **stand in the flesh upon Mount Zion
with the hundred forty and four thousand*** [sounds like the Jehovah
Witness] *and sing the song of Moses and the Lamb. **Thou shalt stand as
the saviour of many souls on Mount Zion, and they shall rejoice in the
presence of the lamb.**”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1837 December 13, Sophia Packard, ***“I confirm upon thee all the Power
of the Priesthood as much as can be upon thy sex. Thou mayest Call God
thy father for thou shalt have faith to heal the sick when thy children
are sick thou mayest lay thy hands upon them in faith and they shall
recover.** Thou shalt have all things that is expedient if thou wilt
exercise faith in God. Thy Children shall be blest from Generation to
Generation and shall be a blessing unto the[e] in the absence of thy
Companion they shall all stand with thee in the covenant and household
of faith **Thou shalt live till thou art satisfyed with life. and shall
*see the Temple reared* even in Jackson County and thou shalt see the
Cloud rest upon it and the glory of God fill the house and shall be
satisfyed and desire to Go hence and be with Jesus…*** *Thou mayest live
to see the **fall of this Generation ***[100+1837=1937] *when wickedness
shall be swept from the Earth.”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1838, **[1888-1893-1898 second coming prediction]** Apostle Parley P.
Pratt: *"…all who will not hearken to the Book of Mormon, shall be cut
off from among the people; and that too, in the day it comes forth to
the Gentiles and is rejected by them... the remnant of Jacob [i. e.
American Indians and certain Mormons] will go through among the Gentiles
and tear them in pieces, like a lion among the flocks of sheep. Their
hand shall be lifted up upon their adversaries, and all their enemies
shall be cut off. This destruction includes an utter overthrow, and
desolation of all our Cities, Forts, and Strong Holds -- an entire
annihilation of our race, except such as embrace the Covenant, and are
numbered with Israel... Now, Mr. Sunderland.... **I will state as a
prophesy, that there will not be an unbelieving Gentile upon this
continent *50 years hence*; [1888] and if they are not greatly scourged,
and in a great measure overthrown, *within five or ten years from this
date*, [1893-1898] then the Book of Mormon will have *proved itself
false*"*** ([*Mormonism
Unveiled*](http://www.solomonspalding.com/docs/prt1838b.htm#pg15b)*—Truth
Vindicated*, by Parley P. Pratt, p. 15) Note: This tract was reprinted
in the book “*Writings of Parley P. Pratt*,” but this entire prophecy
was deleted without any indication.

1839 January 27, Charles W. Hubbard, *“thou shalt look and **see the
Redeemer**…* *“That thou hast **seen Him**…* *thou shalt live to **see
the Savior come while in the flesh**…and shall live to **see the winding
up scenes of this generation*** [100+1839=1939] *and shall be crowned
with Celestial Glory.”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840)

1839 June 2, Signs of Second Coming Have Commenced: *“Men profess to
prophesy. **I will prophesy that the signs of the coming of the Son of
man are already commenced**. One pestilence will desolate after another.
We shall soon have war and bloodshed, the moon will be turned to blood.
I testify of these things, and **that the coming of the Son of Man is
nigh, even at your doors.** If our souls and our bodies are not looking
forth for the coming of the Son of Man; and after we are dead, if we are
not looking forth, we shall be among those who are calling for the rocks
to fall upon them. JOSEPH SMITH”* (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, by Joseph Smith. Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, Church
Historian. DHC--Documentary History of the Church. Section Four 1839-42,
p.160) [(JOD vol. 6 p. 239)](http://jod.mrm.org/6/237)

<https://www.lds.org/manual/doctrines-of-the-gospel-student-manual/chapter-34-the-signs-of-the-times?lang=eng>

1839 July 7, *“Following the setting apart of the Twelve for their
mission to England and the instructions of the First Presidency to them:
Reflections-- Surely this is an important day to behold a quorum of
Twelve Apostles of the Lamb of God organized in these last days to go
forth unto all the nations of the earth **to prune the vineyard once
more for the last time, that the Saints may be prepared for the Second
(Coming) of Christ,** and that Israel may be gathered and Babylon fall
and the earth once more cleansed from its pollutions, and wickedness
swept from the face thereof.”* [(Journal of Wilford
Woodruff,](http://www.ristow.us/foswiki/pub/Genealogy/WilfordWoodruffsJournalKrautsPioneerPress/Woodruff_Wilfords_Journal_-_Krauts_Pioneer_Press.pdf)
July 7, 1839)

1840 April 1, **[1890 second coming prediction]** *In the early rise of
this Church, it seemed that some of **the elders believed that the
second coming of Christ was near at hand**, and in a few years the
Savior would come to his people and take vengeance and the nations be
wasted away and be destroyed and especially this nation. Some prophesied
that in **ten years** there would not be an unbeliever in some of our
large cities. At the April General Conference, 1840, the Prophet Joseph,
while speaking of some of the elders on this matter said they were
mistaken; the Lord would not come in ten years; no, nor in twenty years;
no, nor in thirty years; no, nor in forty years, and **it will be
*almost* fifty years before the Lord will come.*** [50+1840=1890]
([Lunman Shurtliff
Autobiography,](http://www.boap.org/LDS/Early-Saints/LShurtliff.html)
1807-1847, BYU - special Collections Library, page 44;  LDS Historical
Library)

1840 July 4, George Miller, *“thou mayst tarry until the **winding up
scene** and then be numbered with the
**hundred-and-forty-and-four-thousand ***[sounds like the Jehovah
Witness] *that stand upon **Mount Zion**.”* [(Patriachal
Blessings](http://user.xmission.com/~research/mormonpdf/blessingsbyjssr.pdf)
by Joseph Smith Sr., between 1834-1840) [Note: In 1891, George would be
106]

1841 March 24, *“To The Saints Abroad: The First Presidency of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, anxious to promote the
prosperity of said church, feel it their duty to call upon the saints
who reside out of this county, to make preparations to come in, without
delay, This is important, and should be attended to by all who feel an
interest in the prosperity of this the corner stone of Zion
[Independence, Missouri]. Here the Temple must be raised, the University
be built, and other edifices erected which are necessary for the great
work of the last days; and which can only be done by a concentration of
energy, and enterprise. Let it therefore be understood, that all the
stakes, excepting those in this county, and in Lee county, Iowa, are
discontinued, and the saints instructed to settle in this county as soon
as circumstances will permit. Joseph Smith.”* (Joseph Smith, City of
Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill., March 24th 1841. Times and Seasons. "Truth
Will Prevail." Vol. 2 No. 15, City of Nauvoo, Ill. June 1st, 1841
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v2n15.htm> )

1842 Feb. 2, Francis Moon, letter to the editor: *“Cheer up! thou poor
despondent saint, thou who art sometimes ready to say "My Lord delayeth
his coming." Wait patiently a little longer and he whom thou lovest not
having seen, **shall suddenly come to his temple** and will wipe off thy
tears, pour joy and gladness into thy troubled breast and place a crown
of everlasting felicity upon thy immortal brow.”* (FRANCIS MOON,
Pittsburgh, Pa. Feb. 2nd 1842. Times and Seasons, "Truth will prevail."
Vol. III, No. 10, City of Nauvoo, ILL. March, 15, 1842
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v3n10.htm> )

1842 March *“We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the
restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion (the New Jerusalem) will be
built upon the American continent; that Christ will reign personally
upon the earth; and, that the earth will be renewed and receive its
paradisiacal glory. Joseph Smith.”* ([\#10 Article of
Faith](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/a-of-f/1.10?lang=eng#9) pub.
March 1842, *Times and Seasons*, vol. 3, pp. 709-710.)

1842 April 11, From the Dollar Weekly Bostonian: We have the pleasure to
lay before our readers the following letter from Elder Freeman
Nickerson, the presiding elder of the church of Latter Day Saints in
Boston, who believes, to use his own words, that ***"wickedness will
soon be swept from the earth, and that the day of universal
righteousness will set in *during this generation*, when our offices
shall all become peace, and our exactions righteousness:"*** ([Freeman
Nickerson](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freeman_Nickerson) (Presiding
Elder), Boston, April 11, 1842. Times and Seasons, Edited by Joseph
Smith, "Truth will prevail", Vol. III. No. 14. City of Nauvoo, ILL. May
16, 1842 <http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v3n14.htm> )

1842 May 14th, To the Editor of the Daily Ledger: *“I request the
citizens and authorities of the **city of Boston**, to open a house for
the servant of the people, that the Lord hath sent to this city to
**warn the people of the destruction which will *take place in this
generation, that is now on the earth, ****[100+1842=1942] ***and teach
them how they may escape, and come through and abide the day of the
second coming of Christ, to reign on the earth a thousand years.**
Quench not the spirit, despise not prophesying, prove all things, hold
fast that which is good.”* ([Freeman
Nickerson](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freeman_Nickerson) (Presiding
Elder), Nauvoo, May 14th, 1842. Times and Seasons, Edited by Joseph
Smith, "Truth will prevail", Vol. III. No. 14. City of Nauvoo, ILL. May
16, 1842 <http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v3n14.htm> )

1842 June 8th, **[before 1880 second coming prediction]** From the
Dollar Weekly Bostonian: “*MR EDITOR, Having attended the lectures
lately delivered at the Boylston Hall by Mr.* [*[George J.]
Adams,*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_J._Adams) *the Mormon
lecturer of the city of New York, who has just returned from England
where he has been for the last fifteen months declaring what he calls
"the glories of the new and everlasting covenant," I thought a short
review of said lectures would prove interesting to the readers of your
valuable paper; and I have no hesitation in saying that Elder Nickerson
has made a decided hit in getting Mr. Adams to assist him at this time,
as the large, intelligent, and attentive congregations that have
attended to hear his lectures fully prove. *

*On Sunday [June 5th] **Mr. Adams lectured on the second coming of
Christ**, and gave much light on that subject, **showing that it would
take place before this present generation shall pass away.** He proved
also, if the Bible is true, that **the second advent must take place
*before 1880***… He also declared, as it was in the days of Noah, so now
God had called a prophet, viz. Joseph Smith, to **warn this generation**
to prepare for the coming of the Son of Man, and labored to show the
injustice of destroying any generation without first warning them… A
LOVER OF TRUTH. Boston, June 8th, 1842*.” (TIMES AND SEASONS, Edited by
Joseph Smith. "Truth will prevail." Vol. III. No. 17, CITY OF NAUVOO,
ILL. July 1, 1842. <http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v3n17.htm> )

1842 Oct. 17, Olive Green, Ohio,<span id="37" class="anchor"></span>
*“Elder* [*John P. Greene*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_P._Greene)
*informed us that while he was absent from us, passing through Huron
county, he stopped at a temperance house, where, after making himself
known, he was politely invited to preach on Sunday, the Presbyterian
meeting house; which circumstance **proved to be one of the anomalies of
this generation**; he preached on Saturday night to a few persons. …The
minister, Mr. White, was present. On Sabbath morning at an early hour
the house was crowded with people. Mr. White wished to know what course
he should pursue, and then stated what he desired, which was to hear
what was the faith of the Mormons, and wherein they differed from the
popular sects of the day. -Brother Green assented to his proposition: he
then arose and presented to the congregation the object, and called for
an expression of the people to know if they would hear him, Mr. White,
in his ordinary way, or hear the stranger [Elder Green]; upon which a
unanimous vote was given for the stranger, **who then presented unto
them the scriptures of the Old and New Testament as being full of
prophets, prophesyings, and revelations to be fulfilled in the last
days, which are the days of *this generation*, and proposed to show from
the scriptures that these things will be literally fulfilled**…”* (TIMES
AND SEASONS, Edited by John Taylor, CONFERENCE MINUTES, Vol. IV. No. 3,
City of Nauvoo, ILL. Dec. 15, 1842
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v4n03.htm> )

Note: “After [the
Smiths](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_of_Joseph_Smith) were killed,
[John P. Greene](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_P._Greene) supported
the succession claims of [James
Strang](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Strang), but Greene died in
the midst of the [succession
crisis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Succession_crisis_(Latter_Day_Saints)).
The [Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
(Strangite)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_Jesus_Christ_of_Latter_Day_Saints_(Strangite))
alleges that Greene was "martyred by poison ... for disclosing that
James Strang was appointed by Joseph
Smith."[](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_P._Greene#cite_note-9)

1842 November 17, Nauvoo, Letter of [Orson
Spencer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orson_Spencer) “*My Dear Sir,
…there is not a more contented and cheerful people to be found. Families
will consent to let father and brother go out to preaching, when their
daily bread is barely supplied for a few months. Believing as we do,
that **these are the last days, and that signal matters await *this
generation*: and that the harvest must be gathered soon**, if at all,
you must not marvel if we do not all at once become rich, and build
large houses, and enclose productive farms.-If riches were our object,
we might readily gratify the most ambitious grasp. We possess every
facility for being rich; but we long to behold the beauty of the Lord,
and inquire in his holy Temple.”*

[Brother[ Spencer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orson_Spencer) is a
graduate of Union College, New York, and has for many years had a
respectable standing as a minister in the "Baptist Church; and as he is
generally known in the New England States, we presume that the above
logical and conclusive expose of our principle, will be read with
interest, by his numerous friends, and by all the Saints. John Taylor,
Editor] (TIMES AND SEASONS, Edited by John Taylor, "TRUTH WILL PREVAIL"
Vol. IV. No. 4., City of Nauvoo, ILL. Jan. 2, 1843
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v4n04.htm> )

1843 February 14th, *“REMARKABLE PHENOMENON. A letter from an officer in
the U. S. Army, dated Fort Leavenworth, Missouri, 20th March 1842,
states, that on the 14th of February, at 3 o'clock, A. M. **'the moon**,
which had been obscured by a cloud of some hours, **burst forth in a
deep blood-red color**, with a black cross of equal proportions over the
face, extending beyond the rim; while on the two sides small pieces of
rainbow were visible. After continuing in this way for about an hour,
the color of the moon changed to its ordinary hue, and the cross became
a silvery white, with the edges extending beyond the rim, and touching
the rainbows...”* (TIMES AND SEASONS, edited by John Taylor, "TRUTH WILL
PREVAIL" Vol. IV. No. 13, City of Nauvoo, ILL., May 15, 1843
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v4n13.htm> )

1843 March 1, “*To the Editor of the Weekly [Boston] Bee: Dear Sir,
…Curiosity led me to their [Mormons] meeting at the Boylston Hall. …from
which the speaker descanted at considerable length; and I must say I
never heard a more able sermon. …Joe Smith is a Prophet chosen of God to
lay the foundation and be instrumental in carrying on the great work.
That this Gospel must be preached unto all people before the **second
coming of Christ, which from the signs of the times it is expected will
be in *this generation*…*** [1843+100=1943] A Seeker after Truth.”
(TIMES AND SEASONS, edited by John Taylor "TRUTH WILL PREVAIL" Vol. IV,
No. 8, CITY OF NAUVOO, ILL. March 1, 1843
<http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v4n08.htm> )

1843 April 2, **[1890 second coming prediction]** <span id="14"
class="anchor"></span>William Clayton records an important meeting at
Benjamin F. Johnson’s home in Ramus (later named Macedonia), Illinois on
April 2, 1843. This entry later became D&C 130: 14-17 *v.14 I was once
praying very earnestly to know the time of the coming of the Son of Man,
when **I heard a voice** repeat the following:*<span id="15"
class="anchor"></span> * v.15 Joseph, my son, **if thou livest until
thou art eighty-five years old, thou shalt see the face of the Son of
Man; therefore let this suffice, and trouble me no more on this
matter.***<span id="16" class="anchor"></span> *v.16 I was left thus,
without being able to decide whether this coming referred to the
beginning of the millennium or to some previous appearing, or whether I
should die and thus see his face. v.17 I believe the coming of the Son
of Man will not be any sooner than that time…*”
[D&C130:14-17](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.14-17?lang=eng)

<http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843#!/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843&p=81>

1843 April 6, **[1890 second coming prediction]** **Eight years later**
(See 1835 February 14) **Joseph reinforced this statement** in General
Conference, Beginning April 6th, 1843. Saturday afternoon session.
[Conference re-assembled at three o'clock, p. m.]

*{…Urim and Thummim. This earth in its sanctified and immortal state,
will be made like unto crystal and will be a Urim and Thummim to the
inhabitants who dwell thereon, whereby all things pertaining to an
inferior kingdom, or all kingdoms of a lower order, will be manifest to
those who dwell on it; and this earth will be Christ's. Then the white
stone mentioned in Revelation II: 17, will become a Urim and Thummim to
each individual who receives one, whereby things pertaining to a higher
order of kingdoms, will be made known; and a white stone is given to
each of those who come into the Celestial Kingdom, whereon is a new name
written, which no man knoweth save he that receiveth it. The new name is
the key word…* [Temple Work] see 1843 April 2,
[D&C130:6-11](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.6-11?lang=eng)}

-- Continue --

THE PROPHET ON THE SECOND COMING OF THE CHRIST.

*“If I had not actually got into this work and been called of God, I
would back out. But I cannot back out: I have no doubt of the truth.
Were I going to prophesy, I would say the end [of the world] would not
come in 1844, 5, or 6, or in forty years. **There are those of the
rising generation who shall not taste death till Christ comes.
***[100+1843=1943]

I was once praying earnestly upon this subject, and a voice said unto
me, *My son, if thou livest until thou art* [***eighty five years of
age,***](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.14-17?lang=eng)
*[i.e., December 1890] **thou shalt see the face of the Son of Man**. I
was left to draw my own conclusions concerning this; and I took the
liberty to conclude that if I did live to that time, He would make His
appearance. But I do not say whether He will make his appearance or I
shall go where He is. **I prophesy in the name of the Lord God, and let
it be written--the Son of Man will not come in the clouds of heaven till
I am eighty-five years old**. Then read the 14th chapter of Revelation,
6th and 7th verses--"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven,
having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the
earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying
with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His
judgment is come." And Hosea, 6th chapter, After two days, etc.,--2,520
years; **which brings it to 1890**. The coming of the Son of Man never
will be--never can be till the judgments spoken of for this hour are
poured out: which judgments are commenced. Paul says, "Ye are the
children of the light, and not of the darkness, that that day should
overtake you as a thief in the night." It is not the design of the
Almighty to come upon the earth and crush it and grind it to powder, but
he will reveal it to His servants the prophets.*

*Judah must return, Jerusalem must be rebuilt, and the temple, and water
come out from under the temple, and the waters of the Dead Sea be
healed. It will take some time to rebuild the walls of the city and the
temple, &c.; and all this must be done before the Son of Man will make
His appearance, There will be wars and rumors of wars, signs in the
heavens above and on the earth beneath, the sun turned into darkness and
the moon to blood, earthquakes in divers places, the seas heaving beyond
their bounds; then will appear one grand sign of the Son of Man in
heaven. But what will the world do? They will say it is a planet, a
comet, &c. But the Son of Man will come as the sign of the coming of the
Son of Man, which will be as the light of the morning cometh out of the
east.”*

Choir sang a hymn.

Prayer by W. W. Phelps.

Adjourned at six p. m., until tomorrow morning.

Friday, 7. Conference convened at ten a. m.

Singing, prayer by Elder Orson Hyde, and singing… End Quote

(Joseph Smith, Jr., Apr. 6, 1843, [History of the Church, v. 5, chapter
17)](http://www.boap.org/LDS/History/History_of_the_Church/Vol_V)

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_prophecies_of_Joseph_Smith>

1843 April 6, **[1890 second coming prediction]** “*Joseph said when he
was asking to know of the time of Christs second Coming he obtained for
answer my son **if thou shalt live until thou art Eighty five years old
thou shalt see the son of man on Earth.** Joseph was born in Sharon,
Windsor County Vermont Dec 23, 1805. He is therefore now 37 years old
last Dec which leaves 48 years yet to transpire until the time of
Promise that Joseph should see Christ.”* ([Franklin D.
Richards](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franklin_D._Richards_(Mormon_apostle))
"Scriptural Items")

1843 April 6, **[1890 second coming prediction]** “*I prophecy in the
name of the Lord God.--& let it be written. that the Son of Man will not
come in the heavens till I am 85 years old, 48 years hence or about
1890.--the Read 14 Rev. 6 verse another angel fly in the midst of
heaven; for the *hour* of his judgment is come. to extermination--from
commencement. commence when angel commences preaching this gospel 1
day--1000 years. 1000 years as 1 day.--41 yrs 8 months.-- only 6 years
from the voice, saying. if thou live till thou art 85. years old. Hosea
6th chapter after 2 days &c 2520 years which bring it to 1890.--the Son
of man never will be, never can be till the judgments spoken of for this
hour are poured out, which judgments are commenced.* (Joseph Smith
diary, Williard Richards)
<http://www.boap.org/LDS/Parallel/1843/6Apr43(2).html#N_2_>

1843 April 6, **[1890 second coming prediction]** \<about [the second]
coming.\> If I had not actually got into this work, & been called of
God, I would back out, but I cannot back out,— I have no doubt of the
truth. were I going to prophecy.  I would procpesy [prophesy] the end
will not come in 1844. or 5— or 6 or 40 years more, there are those of
the rising generation who shall not taste death till christ come. \<I
was once praying earnestly upon this subject. and a voice said unto
me.\>  My son, if thou livest till thou art 85 years of age, thou shalt
see the face of the son of man.  \<I was left to draw my own conclusions
concerni[n]g this &,\> I took the liberty to conclude that if I did live
till that time Jesus \<he\> would  make his appearance.— \<but I do not
say whether he will make his appeara[n]ce, or I shall go where he
is.—\><span id="trans159" class="anchor"></span>
[159](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843#7361363513126528823)
I prophecy in the name of the Lord  God.— & let it be written. \<that
 the\> Son of Man will not come in the heavns till I am 85. years old 48
years hence or about 1890.— [[John]
Taylor](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843#16121443432641035576)
 says [Christ will come in] 45 years according \<to\>— bible recokoning.
the coming of the Son of man never will be, never can be till the
judgm[en]ts  spoken of for this \<hour\> are poured out,  \<which
Jud[g]ments are commenced.—\> Paul says (1 Thessalonians 5:2, 4–5.) ye
are th[e] children of the light & not of the darkness, that that day
should not overtake us as a theif  in the night. — it is not the
design of the Almighty to come upon the Earth & crush it, & grind it to
powder.— he will reveal it to his servants the prophets. \<O, lord,
where—\> Joe Smith.— Joe Smith.— &c \<whare—\>  \<O.\> away up on the
top of the top less throne  aha. \<&c—\>
[Jerusalem](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843#80134926902270460)—
\<must be\> rebuilt. \<Judah return. must return\> & the temple—
water come out from under the temple— the \<waters of the\> dead sea be
heald.— \<it will take\> some time to build the walls & the temple. &c &
all \<this must be done before—\>Son of Man \<will make his appence
[appearance]\>. wars & rumours  of wars. signs in the heavens above  on
the earth beneath— sun turnd into places, oceans heaving beyond
their bounds.—<span id="trans166" class="anchor"></span>166 \<then\> one
grand sign of the Son of  the son of man in heaven.— but what will the
world. do? they will say it is a planet. a comet. &c— conseq[u]ently the
son of man will come as the sign of coming of the son of man.  \<is\> as
the light of the morni[n]g cometh out of the East.—<span id="trans167"
class="anchor"></span> (Joseph Smiths Journal March 10, 1843 – July 14,
1843 See images 2,
80-84[](http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843#1537467220609794260))

<http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843#!/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843&p=2>

<http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843#!/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843&p=80>

<http://josephsmithpapers.org/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843#!/paperSummary/journal-december-1842-june-1844-book-2-10-march-1843-14-july-1843&p=84>

1844 March 10, Joseph Smith again mentioned the second coming.  This
sermon was recorded by several of those who heard it: *"**While
enquiring of the Lord concerning the End of time, it was made known to
him by the Holy Spirit…** that the Revelation of the Son of Man from
Heaven, would not be in this year, nor the next; and he would say to his
Millerite friends, **that it would not be in forty years to come.** He
uttered all this in the name of the Lord, and said we should go home and
write it."* ([John S.
Fullmer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_S._Fullmer))
[*http://www.boap.org/LDS/Parallel/1844/10Mar44.html*](http://www.boap.org/LDS/Parallel/1844/10Mar44.html)

1844 March 10, **[1884+ second coming prediction]** *“The Savior will
not come this year. nor 40 yrs to come.”*
([Willard\_Richards](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Willard_Richards))
[*http://www.boap.org/LDS/Parallel/1844/10Mar44.html*](http://www.boap.org/LDS/Parallel/1844/10Mar44.html)

1844 March 10, **[1884+ second coming prediction]** *“But I take the
responsibility upon myself to **prophesy in the name of the Lord**, that
Christ will not come this year as [William] Miller [Founder of
Seventh-day Adventist Church] has prophecyed… **I also Prophecy in the
name of the Lord that Christ will not Come in forty years ***[1884+] *&
if God ever spake by my mouth he will not in that length of time & Jesus
Christ never did reveal to any man the precise time that he would come,
go & read the scriptures & you cannot find any thing that specified the
exact time he would come & all who say so are fals teachers.”* (Wilford
Woodruff Journal, March 10, 1844.
[*http://www.boap.org/LDS/Parallel/1844/10Mar44.html*](http://www.boap.org/LDS/Parallel/1844/10Mar44.html)
*)*

1844 May 12, *“The **scripture is ready to be fulfilled** when great
wars, famines, pestilence, great distress, judgments, etc., are ready to
be poured out on the inhabitants of the
earth.”*[](https://www.lds.org/manual/teachings-joseph-smith/chapter-21?lang=eng#8-36481_000_025)
(History of the Church, 6:364, by Joseph Smith, May 12, 1844, in Nauvoo,
Illinois; reported by Thomas Bullock.)

1845 **[1885-95 second coming prediction]** Parley P. Pratt predicted
that by 1945 workers building a LDS temple in New York City would erect
it on the ruins of the former metropolis, and that they would find some
gold and silver coin of the old Government of the United States*. “In
digging for the foundation of our new Temple in the 124th city of
Joseph, near where it is supposed the City of New York once stood, a
large square stone was taken from the ruins of some building which, by a
seam in it indicated more than mere stone. The seam being opened,
disclosed a lead box about six by eight inches square. This box was soon
found to contain several daily papers of its time, together with some
coin of the old Government of the United States. It will be recollected
that all the inhabitants of this city which were spared from calamity,
were \`slung out when the earth was turned upside down,’ some forty or
fifty years ago, [1945–50=1895] for their wickedness.”* (Peter Crawley,
The Essential Parley P. Pratt, 1990 ed., p. 142
<http://signaturebookslibrary.org/essential-parley-p-pratt-12/> )

1845 July 15, The Latter-Day Saints Millennial Star, No.3, Vol.6; THE
LAST DAYS pages 33-35

SIGHS OF THE TIMES, pages 158-160

<https://books.google.com/books?id=ymktAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA99&lpg=PA99&dq=Zebedee+Coltrin+last+days&source=bl&ots=sRYD7kyLTP&sig=DXNZFOjTZGBPVbZUtXMp65YHMbQ&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kEGsVNu0KNfWoATRoIGYBw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwBDgK#v=onepage&q=last%20days&f=false>

1845 Dec. 15, “*The Great Proclamation of the Twelve Apostles of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to all the Kings of the
world, to the Presidents, Governors, Rulers, and People of all nations…
The saints… must be already aware that they are conjointly engaged in a
work, on the accomplishment of which hang important events; and, also
that, according to the testimony of the ancients who have spoken of it,
but **little time is to be given for its fulfillment**… This
proclamation is of vast importance to the Saints of God, to the whole
Gentile world, as well as to all the house of Israel. It is made in
fulfillment of the commandments and revelations of God of both ancient
and modern times, being an invitation and call to the Gentile nations to
receive the gospel of Christ, and come to the assistance of the saints
in **carrying out the great principles and plan of salvation, and the
accomplishment of that work which will end in the coming of Messiah**,
and great preparation of the marriage supper of the Lamb. Such a call
and proclamation is necessary, in order that **the *present generation*
may be left without excuse, as the great events of the last days are
being fulfilled.** In all ages of the world, when the cup of the
iniquity of any people was full, and the Lord was about to bring his
judgments upon them, he has first sent a warning voice amongst them that
all might have a chance of escape and be left without excuse… **This
proclamation bears testimony to the nations of the earth that the
kingdom of God has come**, as has been predicted by the ancient
prophets, and prayed for in all ages, even that kingdom which shall fill
the whole earth and stand forever.”* WILFORD WOODRUFF. (TIMES AND
SEASONS. "TRUTH WILL PREVAIL." VOL. VI, NO. 19, City of Nauvoo, ILL.
Dec. 15, 1845. <http://www.centerplace.org/history/ts/v6n19.htm> )

1854 April 2, **[1904 second coming prediction]** Jedediah M. Grant,
counselor in the First Presidency, instructed elders to look *"for some
flaming sword unsheathed" in the heavens or other special signs to
"dismiss their fears, and dispense with all their anxiety" for the final
events were "rushing upon the astonished world with such velocity, as to
exceed even our most sanguine expectations." Children would live to
raise the dead. **In no more than fifty years,** [1854+50=1904]
**everyone in the congregations would have been borne aloft to meet
Christ**. And Apostle George A. Smith warned the world that "the day of
the Lord is near . . . and we should watch for the coming of the Son of
Man."*27

27Grant, 2 April 1854, *Journal of Discourses,* 2:145; Lorenzo D. Young,
13 December 1857, ibid., 6:212; "Address by President Heber C. Kimball,"
*Millennial Star* 14 (25 December 1852): 693; George A. Smith, 24 June
1855, *Journal of Discourses,* 2:333-34. See also Orson Hyde, n.d.,
*Journal of Discourses,* 5:141; Heber C. Kimball, 11 July 1852, ibid.,
1:35; Kimball, 20 September 1857, ibid., 5:254; Orson Pratt, 24January
1858, ibid., 6:202; "Pestilence and Plague," *Deseret News,* 9 February
1854; and Woodruff, 4:269, 4:375. (Journal of Mormon History, Vol. 22,
No. 2, 1996, p. 10

<http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory>

1855 May 20, *"And when the saints were driven out from Jackson County,
almost all in the Church expected that they would speedily be restored,
and a person was considered almost an apostate that would say, they
would not come back in five years, or ten at the furthest."* (Elder
Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 3 p. 17
<http://jod.mrm.org/3/12>)

1856 March 2 *"**The time is coming** when justice will be laid to the
line and righteousness to the plummet; when WE shall take the old
broadsword and ask, Are you for God? And if you are not heartily on the
Lord's side, YOU will be hewn down."* (Brigham Young, [Journal of
Discourses, vol. 3, p.
226)](http://journalofdiscourses.com/3/30)[](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mormon_Reformation#cite_note-2)

1856 August 31, **[1882 second coming prediction]** *"Mormons, can write
it down if you please, but write it as I speak it. …after **twenty-six
years** [1830] of faithful operation and exertion by our enemies,
including the times when Joseph had scarcely a man to stand by him… In
the days of Joseph it was considered a great privilege to be permitted
to speak to a member of Congress, but **twenty-six years [1882] will not
pass away before the Elders of this Church will be as much thought of as
the kings on their thrones. …Jesus Christ will be the President, and we
are his officers**, and they will have to leave the ground: for they
will find that Jesus has the right of soil. This they are afraid of, do
you blame them? No, I do not, and you should not: let them feel bad and
worry.* [26+1856=1882] (President Brigham Young, Salt Lake City, August
31, 1856 [Journal of Discourses, vol.4,
p.40)](http://journalofdiscourses.com/4/6)

1857 Aug. 2*, "But if you cannot learn to keep the commandments of God
in Great Salt Lake City...how do you expect to keep them in Jackson
County?-for we are sure to go back there as we exist."* (President Heber
C. Kimball, Salt Lake City, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 5. p. 134e.
<http://jod.mrm.org/5/129> )

1857 December 17, Heber C. Kimball: *“They are holy places, and they
will be held sacred even as Jackson County..” “and I shall yet see the
day that I will go back there, with brother Brigham and with thousands
and millions of others, and we will go precisely according to the
dedication of the Prophet of the living God. Talk to me about my having
any dubiety on my mind about these things being fulfilled.—I am just as
confident of it as I am that I am called to be a saviour of men, and no
power can hinder it.”* (President Heber C. Kimball, Journal of
Discourses, Vol 6. p. 190c <http://jod.mrm.org/6/185>)

1857 August 2, Elias Smith still believed in the Second Coming *“I
expect to live to be an old man, and to go back with the saints to the
land of Jackson County.”* (President B. Young remarks; “God grant it.”)
(Elias Smith, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 6, p. 221
<http://jod.mrm.org/6/218>)

1857 September 6, In this prophecy, Heber C. Kimball predicts
that: “*…our enemies, they have cursed themselves with all the curses
they can bear; and the cursings that are on them they never can get off,
neither can those who sustain them. **The Church and kingdom to which we
belong will become the kingdom of our God and his Christ, and brother
Brigham Young will become President of the United States**. [Voices
responded, "Amen." ] And I tell you he will be something more; but we do
not now want to give him the name: but he is called and ordained to a
far greater station than that, and he is foreordained to take that
station, and he has got it; and I am Vice-President, and brother Wells
is the Secretary of the Interior—yes, and of all the armies in the
flesh.”*

(Heber C. Kimball, Journal of Discourses vol. 5, p.219, September 6,
1857 <http://journalofdiscourses.com/5/35> )

1859 May 22, "Jesus has been upon the earth a great more times than you
are aware of. When Jesus makes his next appearance upon the earth, but
few in this church will be prepared to receive him and see him face to
face and converse with him, but he will come to his temple." (Brigham
Young, General Conference, Salt Lake City, May 22, 1859, Journal of
Discourses 7:142 <http://journalofdiscourses.com/7/21>)

1859 Sept. 10, “[Christ appearance in New Jerusalem his] next appearance
will be among the distressed and nearly vanquished sons of Judah. At the
crisis of their fate, when the hostile troops of several nations are
ravaging the city and all the horrors of war are overwhelming the people
of Jerusalem, he will set his feet upon the Mount of Olives, which will
cleave and part asunder at his touch. Attended by a host from heaven, he
will overthrow and destroy the combined armies of the Gentiles, and
appear to the worshipping Jews as the mighty Deliverer and Conquerer so
long expected by their race; and while love, gratitude, awe, and
admiration swell their bosoms, the Deliverer will show them the tokens
of his crucifixion and disclose himself as Jesus of Nazareth, whom they
had reviled and whom their fathers put to death. Then will unbelief
depart from their souls, and ‘the blindness in part which has happened
unto Israel’ be removed.

The great and crowning advent of the Lord will be subsequent to these
two appearances [to the New Jerusalem and to the Jews]; but who can
describe it in the language of mortals? The tongue of man falters, and
the pen drops from the hand of the writer, as the mind is rapt in
contemplation of the sublime and awful majesty of his coming to take
vengeance on the ungodly and to reign as King of the whole earth.

He comes! The earth shakes, and the tall mountains tremble; the mighty
deep rolls back to the north as in fear, and the rent skies glow like
molten brass. He comes! The dead Saints burst forth from their tombs,
and ‘those who are alive and remain’ are ‘caught up’ with them to meet
him. The ungodly rush to hide themselves from his presence, and call
upon the quivering rocks to cover them. He comes! with all the hosts of
the righteous glorified. The breath of his lips strikes death to the
wicked. His glory is a consuming fire. The proud and rebellious are as
stubble; they are burned and ‘left neither root nor branch.’ He sweeps
the earth ‘as with the besom of destruction.’ He deluges the earth with
the fiery floods of his wrath, and the filthiness and abominations of
the world are consumed. Satan and his dark hosts are taken and bound—the
prince of the power of the air has lost his dominion, for He whose right
it is to reign has come, and ‘the kingdoms of this world have become the
kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ.’” (Charles W. Penrose, “The
Second Advent,” Millennial Star, 10 Sept. 1859, 583)
<https://www.lds.org/manual/doctrines-of-the-gospel-student-manual/chapter-36-the-lords-second-coming?lang=eng>

1861 Feb. 17 *“Brethren, I shall go to Jackson County with thousands of
this people who will be faithful to their integrity[to build the
Temple]; but we cannot go back until we have built some good houses.”*
(Heber C. Kimball, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 8, p. 350
<http://jod.mrm.org/8/348>)

1861 March 10, *"Who is there that is prepared for this movement back to
the center stake of Zion, and where are the architects amongst us that
are qualified to erect this temple and the city that will surround it…
And let me remind you that **it is predicted that this generation shall
not pass away till a temple shall be built**, and the glory of the Lord
rest upon it, according to the promises."* (George A. Smith, March 10,
1861, Journal of Discourse, Vol. 9, p. 71 <http://jod.mrm.org/9/66>)

1861 March 10, (see 1832 September 22, [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))
Apostle George A. Smith stated: *"Who is there that is prepared for this
move back to the centre stake of Zion.... let me remind you that it is
predicted that **this generation shall not pass away till a temple shall
be built**, and the glory of the Lord rest upon it, according to the
promises…"* (Journal of Discourses, vol. 10, p. 344
<http://journalofdiscourses.com/10/63> )

1861 May 1, *"We are blessed in these [Rocky] mountains; this is the
best place on earth for the Latter-day Saints. Search for the history of
all nations and every geographical position on the face of the earth,
and you cannot find another situation so well adapted for the Saints as
are these mountains. Here is the place in which the Lord designed to
hide His people.... It has been designed, for many generations, to
**hide up the Saints in the last days, until the indignation of the
Almighty be over**. His wrath will be poured out upon the nations of the
earth."* (Brigham Young, Deseret News Vol. 2, No. 5, May 1, 1861)

1862 May 30, Joseph Morris, prophet and leader of the LDS splinter
group, Morrisites, claimed to have received numerous spiritual
manifestations… Morris told his followers that **the Second Coming was
imminent** and not to bother with planting crops. They may have trampled
some of their crops into the ground as evidence of their faith. Morris
had received revelations indicating that **Christ would come and deliver
his followers just a few days** after a spectacular pageant called "The
Foreshadowing of the Kingdom of God Day," which was scheduled for **30
May 1862**. Therefore Joseph Morris saw the appearance of the army lead
by Robert T. Burton, in the middle of June as a certain sign that the
time of the Second Coming was imminent. Burton killed Morris in the
skirmish. Most of the remaining Morrisites who wished to be saved were
escorted by Connor’s army to **Soda Springs in Idaho** Territory. George
Williams, who declared himself to be the "Prophet Cainan" and Morris's
rightful successor. In January 1879, Williams prophesied that Deer Lodge
County, Montana, would be the site of the Second Coming of Christ.
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_Firstborn_(Morrisite)>

<https://www.lds.org/manual/church-history-in-the-fulness-of-times-student-manual/chapter-thirty-the-civil-war-period?lang=eng>
<http://www.entrybytroops.org/new-jerusalem.html#back5>

Note: some of Joseph Morris followers;
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gudmund_Gudmundson>
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_W._Davies>
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Brighouse>
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Hill_Forscutt>
<http://www.angelfire.com/planet/unitychurch/>

1864 October 23, *“The day is near when a Temple shall be reared in the
Center Stake of Zion, and the Lord has said his glory shall rest on that
House **in this generation**, that is in the generation in which the
revelation was given, which is upwards of thirty years ago.”* (Elder
George Q. Cannon, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, p. 344,
<http://jod.mrm.org/10/340>)

1865 April 23, Goswell Hall, London, England. President [Daniel H.
Wells](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_H._Wells) [2nd councilor to
B. Young] came forward and said— *“The principles taught by the
Latterday Saints are no ordinary principles, but embrace the salvation
of the whole world, and for that reason the servants of God have been
sent through the world to bear testimony to their truth. *

*We have partaken of the Sacrament, because Jesus had said, "Do this in
remembrance of me, till I come again," and this proved that the work of
the Redeemer was but partly finished, the grand consummation being
withheld until a time in the future, when the Lord would again visit the
earth in power and great Glory. Will our Lord thus come again before a
people are prepared to receive him? No, he will not. Now, where are the
people on earth who are preparing to receive him? **I know the
Latter-day Saints, as a people, are doing so, and have their eyes fixed
on the time of His second coming.** *

*I testify that we, as a people, are preparing to receive him when he
comes, and **that no people are so blessed** as they who thus wait on
the Lord. But, though the Saints thus wait for him, they do not expect
to see him until they are prepared. Suppose the Lord was to come down
before this preparation was made, and begin to overturn the tables as he
did in the Temple in days of old. **This generation, had they the power,
would kill him as soon as they did Joseph Smith, and for the same
reason.”*** (THE LATTERS-DAY SAINTS' MILLENNIAL STAR, No. 24, Vol.
XXVII, Pub. 17 June 1865, London England, page 368)

<https://books.google.com/books?id=dS8EAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA369&lpg=PA369&dq=Daniel+H.+Wells+second+coming&source=bl&ots=J-j5nxKl_D&sig=kgIJXhqpjv51NVPnF3tsexV7MoM&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lA-vVKnUNoLpoAS1w4KwDw&ved=0CD8Q6AEwBg#v=onepage&q=second%20coming&f=false>

1866 The great American Republic is now one of the most powerful
governments in the world . . . . But that great–that powerful nation–is
destined to an utter overthrow. If it be asked, why is America to
suffer? The answer is, because they have rejected the kingdom of God,
and one of the greatest divine messages ever sent to man; because they
have sanctioned the killing of the Saints, and the martyrdom of the
Lord’s Prophets, and have suffered his people to be driven from their
midst, and have robbed them of their houses, and homes, and land, and
millions of property, and have refused to redress their wrongs.

For these great evils, they must suffer; the decrees of Jehovah have
gone forth against them; the sword of the Lord has been unsheathed, and
will fall with pain upon their devoted heads. Their great and
magnificent cities are to be cut off. New York, Boston, Albany, and
numerous other cities will be left desolate. Party will be arrayed in
deadly strife against party; State against State; and the whole nation
will be broken up; the sanguinary weapons of the dreadful revolution
will devour the land. Then shall there be a fleeing from one city to
another, from one State to another, from one part of the continent to
another, seeking refuge, from the devastations of bandits and armies;
then shall their dead be left unburied, and the fowls of heaven shall
summer upon them, and the beasts of the earth shall winter upon them.

Moreover, the Lord will visit them with the deadly pestilence which
shall sweep away many millions by its ravages; for their eyes shall fall
from their sockets, and their flesh from their bones, and their tongues
shall be staid in their mouths, that they shall not be able to blaspheme
against their Maker. And it will come to pass, that the heavens will
withhold their rains and their fruitful fields be turned into
barrenness, and the waters of their rivers will be dried up, and left in
standing pools, and the fish therein will die; and the Lord will send
forth a grievous plague to destroy the horses and cattle from the land.
Thus by the sword and by pestilence, and by famine, and by the strong
arm of the Almighty, shall the inhabitants of that wicked nation be
destroyed. In that day a remnant shall repent, and be numbered with the
people of Zion, and shall know that the Lord hath spoken, and hath
fulfilled his decrees upon the land, and executed his fierce justice
upon the oppressors of his people. (Orson Pratt, Mill Star, 28:633-34,
1866; Masterful Discourses of Orson Pratt, pp. 156-157)

1870 April 10, (see 1832 September 22, [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))
Apostle Orson Pratt: *“We have ... confidence in returning to Jackson
county... There are many of the old stock still living, whose faith in
returning to Jackson County, and the things that are coming, is as firm
and fixed as the throne of the Almighty.”* (Journal of Discourses, vol.
13, p. 138 <http://journalofdiscourses.com/13/16> )

1870 May 5, (see 1832 September 22, [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))
*“... God promised in the year 1832 that we should, **before the
generation then living had passed** away, return and build up the City
of Zion in Jackson County.... We believe in these promises as much as we
believe in any promise ever uttered by the mouth of Jehovah. The
Latter-day Saints just as much expect to receive a fulfillment of that
promise during the generation that was in existence in 1832 as they
expect that the sun will rise and set to-morrow. Why? Because **God
cannot lie. He will fulfil all His promises. He has spoken, it must come
to pass.** This is our faith…”* (Apostle Orson Pratt, Journal of
Discourses, vol. 13, p. 362 <http://journalofdiscourses.com/13/45> )

1871 April 9, (see 1832 September 22, [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))
Apostle Orson Pratt: “*... a temple will be reared on the spot that has
been selected, [by the *finger* of the Lord] and the corner-stone of
which has been laid, in the generation when this revelation was given;
we just as much expect this as we expect the sun to rise in the morning
and set in the evening.... But says the objector, "thirty-nine years
have passed away." What of that? The generation has not passed away; all
the people that were living thirty-nine years ago have not passed away;
but before they do pass away this will be fulfilled.”* (Journal of
Discourses, vol. 14, p. 275 <http://journalofdiscourses.com/14/38> )

1874 June 14, (see 1832 September 22, [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))
Apostle Orson Pratt: *“God said, in the year 1832, before we were driven
out of Jackson County, in a revelation ... that before that generation
should all pass away, a house of the Lord should be built in that
county.... This was given forty-two years ago. The generation then
living was not only to commence a house of God in Jackson County,
Missouri, but was actually to complete the same,... if you believe in
these revelations you just as much expect the fulfillment of the
revelation as of any one that God has ever given in these latter
times,... we Latter-day Saints expect to return to Jackson County and to
build a Temple there before the generation that was living forty-two
years ago has all passed away. Well, then, the time must be **pretty
near** when we shall begin the work.”* (Journal of Discourses, vol. 17,
p. 111 <http://journalofdiscourses.com/17/16> )

1875 February 7, (see 1832 September 22, [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))
Orson Pratt was teaching that only a few of those who were driven from
Jackson County would return to receive their inheritances: *"We need not
expect, from what God has revealed, that a very great number of those
who were then in the Church and who were driven, will have the privilege
of returning to that land.* …***There will be some that will live to
behold that day, and will return ... according to the promise"***
(Journal of Discourses, vol. 17, p. 291-292
<http://journalofdiscourses.com/17/41> )

1875 March, “… the elders were preaching that the Savior would come to
earth "soon not more than sixteen years according to the revelations
Joseph Smith had received."39 …In the next year, 1876, the Church
published a new edition of the Doctrine and Covenants, which divided the
revelations into numbered verses and added twenty-six sections,
including, for the first time, the Joseph Smith millennial prophecy as
Section 130.41 Thus, the Church officially endorsed Joseph Smith's
prophetic timetable, renewing hope in the 1891 prophecy. …In 1877,
Brigham Young died. His successor, John Taylor, left no doubt of his
literal approach to modern prophecy. "All that he [God] has said . . .
through ancient prophets and through Joseph Smith are true.... I will
prophecy that they will take place as sure as God lives, and they are
approaching very rapidly upon us." George Q. Cannon, his first
counselor, told the Saints that step by step all of Joseph Smith's
prophecies were coming to fruition "just as sure as [if] God [had]
spoken it." Sixtus E. Johnson, bishop in Kanab, "urged the Saints to
prepare for the judgments of the Almighty upon the wicked Nations." And
in 1878, Lorenzo Snow predicted that "the time is speedily coming" when
the Saints would return "to Jackson County, Missouri. . . . There are
many hundreds and hundreds within the sound of my voice that will live
to go back to Jackson County and build a holy temple to the Lord our
God."42 …An 1879 edition of the Doctrine and Covenants, edited by Orson
Pratt, contained footnotes for the first time. Canonized at October 1880
general conference, it provided explicit and official endorsement of the
millennial expectation.46 Pratt's footnote for Section 130 highlighted
Joseph Smith's eighty-five-year millennial prophecy, adding in the
commentary section confirmation of the fateful time frame "near the end
of the year 1890." Pratt also cross-referenced the revelation: "See
prophecy of Joseph, uttered

39"Record of Andrew Jackson Allen," 105, 21 March 1875; C. Jacobson,
Diary, 1876, as quoted in Reinwand, "An Interpretive Study of Mormon
Millennialism," 145, also refers to fifteen years.

4lThe editor, Orson Pratt, included Section 130 under the direction of
Brigham Young. Robert J. Woodford, "The Historical Development of the
Doctrine and Covenants" (Ph.D diss., Brigham Young University, 1974),
70, 75-76,

1,710. Earlier editions of the Book of Commandments/Doctrine and
Covenants had been published in the United States in 1833, 1835, 1844,
1845, and 1846 with a British edition coming in 1845; none of them had
included this prophecy.

42John Taylor, *Journal of Discourses,* 21 September 1878, 21:56; Cannon
quoted in "Religious Service," *DeseretNews,* 26 June 1882, 1, and
"Remarks by President George Q. Cannon," ibid., 26 July 1884, 1; Johnson
quoted in Leonard John Nuttall, Diary, 7 December 1878, typescript,
Special Collections, Lee Library, Brigham Young University; Snow quoted
in Van Wagoner, *Sidney Rigdon* 153. See also Woodruff, *Journal,*
7:258; Woodruff, *Journal of Discourses,* 19:135, 360-61

46 Woodford, "The Historical Development of the Doctrine and Covenants,"

(Journal of Mormon History, Vol. 22, No. 2, 1996, p. 14, 15

<http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory>

1875 June 27, *“I do not believe that the day is very far distant when
the revelations which God has given concerning the last days will have
their fulfillment. **I believe there are many children now living in the
mountains of Israel who will never taste of death, that is, they will
dwell on the earth at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.** [1875+100=
1975] I will acknowledge that there is a great deal to be done, and the
Lord has not revealed to man the day or the hour, but **he has revealed
the generation**; and the fig trees are now putting forth their leaves
in the eyes of all the nations, indicating the near approach of the
second coming of the Son of Man. **It is my faith that hundreds and
thousands of the children that have been given to us will be alive in
the flesh when Christ comes** in the clouds of heaven in power and great
glory. **The Lord will not disappoint the inhabitants of the earth in
these last days in regard to his second coming**, any more than he has
with regard to other great events and dispensations. *

*We live in a very important age and generation; we live in the day and
time when God has set his hand to fulfill a measure of prophecy and
revelation to man, in the great dispensation of all dispensations. As an
individual **I do not believe that many more years will roll over the
heads of the inhabitants of the earth before the resurrection will be
upon them, and then these children, which we are called to bury today,
will come forth from their graves, clothed with glory, immortality and
eternal life.** You may ask why I believe this. **I believe it because
the revelations of God say so. I read the Scriptures, and I believe that
the revelations and prophecies therein contained mean what they say…**
those long lost tribes will come forth in your day and mine, if we live
a few years longer, and they will be crowned under the hands of the
children of Ephraim—the Elders of Israel who dwell in the land of
Zion... The earth is now pretty near ripe, and when ripened the Lord
will cut them off. These things are before the Latter-day Saints, but
the world do not believe in them any more than they believed in the
message of Noah or Lot. **Brethren and sisters, let us read the
revelations of God for ourselves, and when we read them, let us believe
them**…”* (Second Coming of Christ, Wilford Woodruff, Salt Lake City,
June 27, 1875, [Journal of Discourse, vol. 18,
pp.37-38)](http://jod.mrm.org/18/29)

1875 Oct. 2, *“God has sent forth His warning message in the midst of
this nation, but they have rejected it and treated His servants with
contempt; the Lord has gathered out His people from their midst, and has
planted them here in these mountains; and **He will speedily fulfill the
prophecy in relation to the overthrow of this nation, and their
destruction**. We shall be obliged to have a government to preserve
ourselves in unity and peace; for they, through being wasted away, will
not have the power to govern; for state will be divided against state,
city against city, town against town, and the whole country will be in
terror and confusion; mobocracy will prevail and there will be no
security, through this great Republic, for the lives or property of the
people.”* (Orson Pratt, Deseret Evening News, Oct. 2, 1875)

1876 April 6, [Unbelief of the Present Age,
Etc](http://journalofdiscourses.com/18/24) *“One of the signs of the
times to be given when the kingdom of God should be built up, was the
heaving of the sea beyond its bounds. Has anybody heard of any such
thing in these days? Everybody that reads the newspapers knows that
events of this kind have been common during the past few years; but
**this generation** pay no more regard to them than they would to the
shaking of a straw in the wind, so far as being a sign of the coming of
the Son of Man, or of the accomplishment of the work of the Lord in the
last days. Talk to people generally, in the world, about such things,
and they say—"Oh, they are accounted for upon some natural principle."
It is so with all of the signs that the Lord has given, or that he will
give, that have been prophesied about—they can all be accounted for upon
some natural principle. They are nevertheless coming to pass in the time
that the Lord, through his Prophets, has said they would come. **Many
things prophesied of in ages past and gone are actually transpiring
today,** yet the people generally do not comprehend them. But the
majority of **the Latter-day Saints** do, and they **know that the time
of the second coming of the Savior is approaching.” ***(Daniel H. Wells,
General Conference, April 6, 1876, Journal of Discourse, Vol.18, pages
203-207, <http://journalofdiscourses.com/18/24> )

1876 January 15, Andrew J. Allen reported that two elders told a
congregation in one of the Salt Lake Valley wards to avoid the gentiles
and their dress, and to ***“look forward to the time when the saviour
would come on the earth which would be soon not more than sixteen years
according to the revelations Joseph Smith had received.”*** Henry
Ballard recorded in his diary that in a Bishop’s meeting in Logan, Utah,
on January 15, 1876, Joseph F. Smith said, **“that by the history of
Joseph that it was only 15 years till the coming of the Son of man.”**
<http://digital.lib.usu.edu/cdm/ref/collection/Diaries/id/16202>

1877 May 20, Concerning the temple in Jerusalem, [Orson
Pratt](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orson_Pratt) stated, *"By and by
there will be a Temple built at Jerusalem. Who do you think is going to
build it? You may think that it will be the unbelieving Jews who
rejected the Savior. I believe that that which is contained on the 77th
page of the Book of Mormon, as well as in many other places, in that
same book, will be literally fulfilled. The Temple at Jerusalem will
undoubtedly be built, by those who believe in the true Messiah. Its
construction will be, in some respects different from the Temples now
being built. **It will contain the throne of the Lord,** upon which he
will, at times, personally sit, and will reign over the house of Israel
for ever. It may also contain twelve other thrones, on which the twelve
ancient Apostles will sit, and judge the twelve tribes of Israel."*
(Pratt, Orson, [Building
Temples,](http://en.fairmormon.org/Journal_of_Discourses/19/2) Journal
of Discourses vol. 19: p. 19–20)

1877 December 16, A Vision of the Apostle John Taylor: *“…Some of the
brethren have been asking me concerning **[The Second] Coming events**,
and I will now tell you some of the things **which will shortly come to
pass.***

*I then found myself wandering about the streets of Salt Lake City and
noticed on the doors of every house, including my own, badges of
mourning… No one seemed to be passing along the streets and everything
was as still as death… I then looked over the country; in every
direction as far as I could see, a similar condition of sickness and
death prevailed. The inhabitants of Illinois and Missouri were in
dreadful condition, the men and women killing each other in the most
brutal manner.*

*Next I visited the City of Washington, D.C., and found the place
deserted and in ruins. From there I went to Baltimore and on the square,
where stands the monument of 1812, dead bodies of the inhabitants of the
place were piled in heaps. While there I saw mothers cut the throats of
their own children and drink the blood in order to quench their thirst.
The waters of the Chesapeake Bay were so befouled from the effect of
dead bodies that the water could not be used. Sickness and death
prevailed throughout the city and the stench was something awful. I
thought surely that this must be the end of suffering, but when I
visited the City of Philadelphia, I found the place in ruins and the
smell from dead bodies was beyond anything one could imagine.*

*In New York I saw men crawl out of cellars, ravish beautiful women,
kill them and rob them of their jewels. I saw parents eating the flesh
of their own offspring and then roll over and die. Looking back while on
my way to Central Park, I saw fire break out and a heavy wind carried
the flames over the city, and all the buildings, wharfs and ships in the
harbor were burned. The stench from the burning bodies was carried by
the wind across the Hudson River spreading death and destruction
wherever it went. The sights that met my view on all sides were so
horrible to look upon that it would be impossible for me to describe
them.*

*After these scenes had passed, I found myself standing on the left bank
of the Missouri River, just opposite to where stood the City of
Independence and soon discovered that the states of Illinois, Missouri,
and part of Iowa had been swept clean of its inhabitants and the
surrounding country was a complete wilderness. *

*A short distance across the river, I beheld twelve men dressed in their
temple robes standing in a square with their hands raised, and it was
made known to me that they represented the twelve gates of the New
Jerusalem. They then consecrated the grounds and laid the cornerstones
of the city and temple; and while they were doing so, I saw myriads of
heavenly angels hovering over them. I heard the most beautiful music and
singing that I ever listened to and these were the words they repeated:
**“Now is established the Kingdom of our God and His Christ which shall
no more be thrown down or given to another people.”***

***I then saw a multitude of people coming from various directions to
take part in the upbuilding of the city and temple and even the angels
were on hand to assist in the glorious work. A great cloud arose above
them and many of the saints were clothed in their temple robes.** All of
a sudden I found myself standing at the pulpit of the Ogden Tabernacle,
yet I could see the building of the city of Zion and temple going on and
the cloud that hovered above the place.*

*I had become so animated by this time that I called upon the
congregation to listen to the sweet music and singing of the angels that
seemed to fill the house. Then **I heard a voice say, “Now has come to
pass that which was spoken by the mouth of Isaiah the Prophet**, where
he declares that \`Seven women shall take hold of one man saying, We
will eat our own bread and wear our own apparel, only let us be called
by thy name to take away our reproach.’”*

*By this time I was so exhausted that I staggered backwards, and Brother
Franklin D. Richards and some of the other brethren caught me before I
fell. I then asked Brother Richards to apologize for me stopping so
abruptly in my remarks, and to tell them that I had not fainted, but was
overcome from exhaustion. I then rolled over in bed and the clock in the
City and County Building struck twelve.”* (Wilford Woodruff’s Journal,
June 15, 1878, A Vision, Salt Lake City, Night of Dec 16, 1877)

<http://visionsandtribulation.blogspot.com/search/label/New%20Civil%20War%20US>

1879, 47 years after the 1832 Missouri Temple Revelation, ([D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))
in the [1879 Edition of the Doctrine and
Covenants](http://books.google.com/books?id=sgsDAAAAQAAJ&pg=PA289#v=onepage&q&f=false)
this footnote was added to [Section
84:5](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1)
**“*A generation does not all pass away in a hundred years.”*** Note:
The footnote was removed after 1932

*“It may be reasonable to assume that in giving this revelation to the
Prophet, **the LORD did have in mind the generation of people who would
still be living within the one hundred years from the time of the
announcement of the [Lords] revelation,** and that they would enjoy the
blessings of the temple, and a glorious cloud would rest upon it. It is
also reasonable to believe that no soul living in 1832, is still living
in mortality on the earth.”* (Joseph F. Smith, *Answers to Gospel
Questions*, 4:112)

1879 January 7, ***“the cup of iniquity was full and that surely the
Lord would, shortly come out of his hiding place and vex the nation."***
(L. John Nuttall, Diary, 7 January 1879
<https://www.dialoguejournal.com/wp-content/uploads/sbi/articles/Dialogue_V24N03_45.pdf>
)

1879 April 21, *“The American Nation will be broken in pieces.... **you
live in the day and hour of the judgments of God Almighty.... the hour
of God’s judgment is at the door**.... I wish to warn all nations....
Thrones will be cast down, nations will be overturned, anarchy will
reign, all legal barriers will be broken down, and the laws will be
trampled in the dust. You are about to be visited with war, sword,
famine, pestilence, plague, earthquakes, whirlwinds, tempests, and with
the flame of devouring fire.... the slain of the Lord will be many.”*
(Apostle Wilford Woodruff, April 21, 1879, in Millennial Star, vol. 41,
p. 241) [100+1879=1979]

1879 May 31, In May 1879 Charles L. Walker recorded that Joseph Smith’s
contemporary, one O. M. Allen, professed he heard ***“the prophet Joseph
say that those who lived until the year 1881 would see the judgments go
forth on the wicked that would make their soul sicken to see and hear of
them.”***[42](http://signaturebookslibrary.org/?p=5708#42) <span id="42"
class="anchor"></span>(Larson and Larson, Diary of Charles Walker,
1:486, 31 May 1879. Allen’s 1881 date may stem from Dimick Huntington’s
recollection that, in surrendering to Illinois officials in 1844, Smith
had said, ***“If they shed my blood it shall shorten this work 10 years.
That taken from 1891 would reduce the time to 1881 which is the true
time within which the Saviour should come [and] much must be crowded
into 6 years.”*** (Oliver B. Huntington, Diary, TS, Special Collections,
Lee Library, 2:129. <http://signaturebookslibrary.org/?p=5708> )

1879 December 27, ***"There will be no United States in the year
1890."*** (Apostle Wilford Woodruff, Snowflake, Arizona, Dec. 27, 1879)
(Note: Council of 50; The White Horse Prophecy; The Everlasting United
Order; The overthrow of the US Government; Second Coming and Polygamy,
solved!)

1880 Jan 9, Apostle Orson Pratt writes to his children that “*the city
of New Jerusalem will be constructed by April 1950.” *[Independence,
Missouri]

1880 Jan 26, Wilford Woodruff’s “Wilderness Revelation” *“The nation is
ripened in iniquity … and I will not stay my hand in judgement upon this
nation or the nations of the earth…. The blood of my servants Joseph and
Hyrum … cries from the ground for vengeance upon the nation which has
shed their blood. But their blood shall speedily be avenged and shall
cease to cry unto me, for the hour of God’s judgement is fully come and
shall be poured out without measure upon the wicked…. prepare ye for the
coming of the Son of man, which is **nigh at the door**. No man knoweth
the day nor the hour; but **the signs of both heaven and earth indicate
His coming**. as promised by the mouths of my disciples. The fig trees
are leaving and the hour is nigh.”*
([51](http://signaturebookslibrary.org/?p=5708#51) <span id="51"
class="anchor"></span>Woodruff’s “Wilderness Revelation” can be found in
full in Susan Staker, Waiting for World’s End, 340-46; and Fred C.
Collier, ed., Unpublished Revelations of the Prophets and Presidents of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, 2 vols. (Salt Lake
City: Collier’s Publishing Co., 1979-93), 1:123-29.
<http://signaturebookslibrary.org/?p=5708> )

1880 June 6th, *“**We live in a generation when great changes are about
to take place**. We live in a time when darkness covers the whole earth
and gross darkness the people. The world are a great way from the truth.
Infidelity overwhelms the earth, in fact it is a hard matter today to
get either priest or people, sect or party, of any name or denomination
under heaven to believe in the literal fulfillment of the Bible, as
translated in the days of King James, which contains the revelations
given from the days of Father Adam down to our own time, and which point
out to us **the signs of heaven and earth indicating the coming of the
Son of Man. We live in the generation ***[100+1880=1980] ***itself when
Jesus Christ will come in the clouds of heaven with power and great
glory**. We live in the generation when the Gospel of Jesus Christ has
been revealed in its fullness... There never has been, in my view, any
generation in which the same amount of prophecies and important events
have to be fulfilled as in **the generation in which we live**.”*
(Wilford Woodruff, Christ Coming in this Generation, Salt Lake City,
June 6th, 1880 Journal of Discourse, Vol. 21, p. 124
<http://jod.mrm.org/21/121>)

1880 March 21, “**the coming of the Son of Man was nigh, even at the
doors**, and that there were thousands living in [the] mountains at
[that] time that would see the son of God come and many would not taste
death.” ([54](http://signaturebookslibrary.org/?p=5708#54) Wilford
Woodruff, St. George, Utah. Larson and Larson, Diary of Charles Walker,
2:544, 20 Mar. 1881)

1881 Aug. 14, Wilford Woodruff continued to warn church members of the
approaching “hour.” At an 1881 conference in Manti he promised ***“that
thousands of the children of the latter day saints would not die but
would live to see the Saviour come.”*** (Larson and Larson, Diary of
Charles L. Walker, 2:563-64, 14 Aug. 1881.,
<http://signaturebookslibrary.org/?p=5708> )

1882 April 9, “**A terrible day of reckoning is approaching the nations
of the earth; the Lord is coming out of His hiding place to vex the
inhabitants thereof; and the destroyer of the Gentiles, as prophesied
of, is *already on his way*.** …The internal fires of revolution are
already smouldering in this nation, and they need but a spark to set
them in a flame. Already are agencies at work in the land calculated to
subvert and overthrow every principle of rule and government; already is
corruption of every kind prevailing in high places and permeating all
society; already are we, as a nation, departing from our God and
corrupting ourselves with malfeasance, dishonor and a lack of public
integrity and good faith; already are licentiousness and debauchery
corrupting, undermining and destroying society; already are we
interfering with the laws of nature and stopping the functions of life,
and have become the slayers of our own offspring, and employ human
butchers in the shape of physicians to assist in this diabolical and
murderous work. The sins of this nation, the licentiousness, the
debauchery, the murders are entering into the ears of the Lord of
Sabaoth, and I tell you now, from the tops of these mountains, as a
humble servant of the living God, that unless these cries and infamies
are stopped, this nation will be overthrown and its glory, power,
dominion and wealth will fade away like the dews of a summer morning. I
also say to other nations of the earth, that unless they repent of their
crimes, their iniquities and abominations, their thrones will be
overturned, their kingdoms and governments overthrown, and their lands
made desolate. This is not only my saying, but it is the saying of those
ancient prophets which they themselves profess to believe; **for God
will speedily have a controversy with the nations of the earth**, and,
as I stated before, the destroyer of the Gentiles is on his way to
overthrow governments, to destroy dynasties, to lay waste thrones,
kingdoms and empires, to spread abroad anarchy and desolation, and to
cause war, famine and bloodshed to overspread the earth.” (John Taylor,
General Conference, Journal of Discourse, vol. 23, p.62-63, April 9,
1882 <http://journalofdiscourses.com/23> )

1882 September 16, Charles Lowell Walker recorded that the St. George,
Utah, President of the Seventy ***“Spoke of the persecutions of the
Saints in Missouri and Illinois, and the duties of the Seventies and the
great things that would transpire before the winding up scene in
1891.”***

(Larson and Larson, Diary of Charles L. Walker, p. 586
<http://rationalfaiths.com/even-fifty-six-years-wind-scene/> )

1884, *“the day was at hand when Joseph and Hyrum Smith would be
resurrected and Christ would*

*appear among his followers —all, he indicated, before the apocalyptic
events associated with destruction of the wicked.”* (Apostle Erastus
Snow, "Discourse" 1884
<https://www.dialoguejournal.com/wp-content/uploads/sbi/articles/Dialogue_V24N03_45.pdf>
)

1885 January 12, (see March 10, 1844) “…*the Millerites were preparing a
place for the Savior to come and meet with them, on a certain day, in
that month in Illinois. They were making great preparations by cleaning
a certain piece of ground and spreading carpets, etc. Brother Joseph was
speaking on the "Resurrection" and the "Second Coming of the Son of
God." "You can go and tell Brother Miller he won't come on that day nor
the next, nor the next year. **In the name of Jesus Christ I prophesy he
won't come in forty years." In a [that] moment I desired to live forty
years more, and he has not come; I am just as anxious to live to see the
next saying of the Prophet fulfilled concerning his coming, as I was the
first.** He was enquiring of the Lord concerning his second coming; the
answer was, "If you live to be (I think it was eighty) years old you
will see the face of the Son of God**." I am in my seventy-eighth year.
I want to live to see that saying fulfilled.** But it matters not. If I
am faithful I will see him when he does come. Another saying of the
Prophet, which I heard for myself, for I write nothing only what I can
testify to.”* (Autobiography of [Martha Pane Jones
Thomas](http://www.boap.org/LDS/Early-Saints/MThomas.html), Lehi, Utah
County, January 12, 1885)

1885-86 Karl Benz from Germany, invented the gasoline powered
motorwagen.

1886 October 14, **[1891 second coming prediction]** Abraham H. Cannon
recorded the following in his journal: Thursday, Oct. 14th:—The
following are words spoken by Apostle [sic] Moses Thatcher, at Lewiston…
*"It is my belief, that **the time of our deliverance will be within
five years**; the time indicated being **February 14th, 1891**.... And
that the man raised up will be no other than the Prophet Joseph Smith in
his resurrected body.... **the government will pass into the hands of
the Saints, and that within five years.** There will not be a city in
the Union that will not be in danger of disruption by the Knights of
Labor, who are becoming a formidable power in the land...* *A servant of
God, holding the power and keys of the Holy Apostleship does not speak
in this manner for mere pastime. There is more in these utterances than
we are apt to attach to them, unless we are aided by the Spirit of
God."* (Daily journal of Abraham H. Cannon, October 14, 1886, BYU
Library) (Salt Lake Tribune, 10 April 1886)

1887, **[1891 second coming prediction]** The LDS Church printed and
distributed a book by Elder Robert Smith (2nd cousin of Joseph Smith),
to be "used by teachers in Sunday Schools*." Smith wrote: Now, we will
prove by the prophet Joseph Smith that the same year, **1891, is the
commencement of the reign of righteousness**. In Section 130, Doctrine
and Covenants,* [(D&C
130:14-19)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130.14-19?lang=eng)
*Joseph was told that if he lived to be 85 years old he would live to
see the **scene wound up** or the Redeemer on the earth. He was born
December 23rd, 1805, and if we give him the 85 years, we could not count
the year 1805, we should have to count 1806, as the year 1805 was mostly
gone before he was born, therefore, we have 1806 and 85, making 1891;
again in the year 1835 Joseph was told positively that 56 years would
**wind up the scene**, which we believe was the reign of iniquity and
transgression: **56 and 1835 are 1891. Thus we have abundant proof that
that year will begin the reign of righteousness**, and God's people be
acknowledged, for the earth is to be given to them. He has said: 'Fear
not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the
kingdom."* (A Series of Lectures on the Fulfillment of Prophecy, 1887,
pp.39-40)

1887 January 13, When the House of Representatives approved the
[Edmunds-Tucker
Act](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edmunds%E2%80%93Tucker_Act), Wilford
Woodruff warned that Congress had ***"turned the last key that seals
their condemnation and lays the foundation for the overthrow & final
destruction of the United States Government"***

(Scott G. Kenney 1983, 8:420-21
<https://www.dialoguejournal.com/wp-content/uploads/sbi/articles/Dialogue_V24N03_45.pdf>
)

1888 April 11, *“We are all dependent upon Jesus Christ, upon his coming
into the world to open the way whereby we might secure peace, happiness,
and exaltation.” “We have a testimony concerning Christ, that He is
coming to the earth, to reign.”*
[](https://www.lds.org/manual/teachings-of-presidents-of-the-church-lorenzo-snow/chapter-24-reflections-on-the-mission-of-jesus-christ?lang=eng&clang=ase#14-36787_000_24)(Lorenzo
Snow, April 11, 1888 General Conference.)
<https://www.lds.org/manual/teachings-of-presidents-of-the-church-lorenzo-snow/chapter-24-reflections-on-the-mission-of-jesus-christ?lang=eng&clang=ase>

1888 May 17, Polygamy: “*…In April, Wilford Woodruff* [*expressed
dismay*](https://www.sunstonemagazine.com/pdf/037-8-27-35.pdf) *that
some speakers at the general conference had referred to plural marriage,
despite a decision by the apostles to avoid such expressions, yet at the
dedication of the Manti Temple on 17 May 1888, President Woodruff said,
**"We are not going to stop the practice of plural marriage until the
Coming of the Son of Man."*** (Heber J. Grant, Journal, 17 May 1888;
also John Henry Smith, Diary, 17 May 1888.

LDS Church Authority and New Plural Marriages, 1890-1904 D. Michael
Quinn, page 34

<https://www.dialoguejournal.com/wp-content/uploads/sbi/articles/Dialogue_V18N01_11.pdf>
)

1888 October, Apostle Franklin D. Richards proclaimed at October 1888
general conference that ***many children then alive would yet be alive
to see the redemption of Zion and the Second Coming***, a repetition of
an 1885 promise by Lorenzo Snow. A full year later in November 1889,
Woodruff confirmed that ***"the Lord will never give a revelation to
abandon plural marriage,"*** received a new revelation confirming that
"***the judgements of God, which are to be poured out upon all nations .
.. are nigh at your doors,"*** promised the destruction of the Church's
opponents, prophesied the Saints' ***deliverance, and assured Church
members that many in his audience would see Christ come in glory while
"in the flesh."***60

60Woodruff quoted in Heber J. Grant, Diary, 17 May 1888, quoted in Jean
Bickmore White, ed., *Church, State, and Politics: The Diaries of John
Henry Smith* (Salt Lake City: Signature Books, 1990), 201 note 121;
Richards quoted in John Morgan, 6 October 1888, Journals, 8:156; Snow
quoted in Anson V. Call III, "An Account of the Doings of Anson V. Call
II," 1, LDS Church Archives, MS 5384; Woodruff quoted in Heber J. Grant,
Journal, 20 December 1888, quoted in D. Michael Quinn, "LDS Church
Authority and New Plural Marriages, 1890-1904," *Dialogue: A Journal of
Mormon Thought* 18 (Spring 1985): 35; Woodruff, "Remarks," at Tooele
Stake conference, 29 July 1889, in Brian H. Stuy, ed., *Collected
Discourses,* 5 vols. (Sandy, Utah: B.H.S. Publishing, 1987-92), 1:325.
See also Woodruff, *Journal,* 9:67-69; Nuttall, Diary, 24 November 1889;
Clark, *Messages of the First Presidency,* 3:171-76; Orson *Pratt,
Journal of Discourses,* 20:152. (Journal of Mormon History, Vol. 22, No.
2, 1996, p. 23

<http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory>

1889 **[1890 second coming prediction]** In his journal, President
Wilford Woodruff summarized 1889 by writing: *“Thus ends the year 1889,
and the word of the Prophet Joseph Smith is beginning to be fulfilled
that the whole nation would turn against Zion and make war upon the
Saints. The nation has never been filled so full of lies against the
Saints as today. **1890 will be an important year with the Latter-day
Saints and [the] American Nation**”* (Wilford Woodruff’s Journal, 9:74)

<https://www.lds.org/manual/presidents-of-the-church-student-manual/wilford-woodruff-fourth-president-of-the-church?lang=eng>

1890 January 21, *“OUR CHICAGO LETTER: The Mormon Doctrine Preached by
Moody, the Evangelist. CHICAGO, Jan. 21,1890. [Special Correspondence of
the Deseret News.]*

*Last Sunday the famous evangelist, Mr. [D.L.] Moody, preached a sermon
in this city which has raised a commotion in religious communities. **He
preached on the second coming of Christ.** His language has no
equivocation or ambiguity about it. Orthodox preachers are abusing him
and strict sectarians are calling him a “Mormon,” a follower of Joseph
Smith etc.; and really his sermon I well worth perusing especially by
Utah citizens Inasmuch as this sermon was delivered to A vast and
attentive congregation it is a good index of what is coming and will
show to Latter Day Saints that light is breaking. On several occasions
heretofore I have stated that Mr. Moody was borrowing largely from
Mormon doctrine and Mormon discipline… Here Mr. Moody hits the nail on
the head and account for the opposition to “Mormonism.” The thieves and
cutthroats oppose it because to them the truth is to bitter. In fact
**the Salt Lake Gentiles might peruse this sermon with profit, and that
Kingdom which they fear so much may be nearer at hand then they
fancy.”*** ( Deseret evening news., January 24, 1890, Image 2
<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn83045555/1890-01-24/ed-1/seq-2/#date1=1889&index=0&rows=20&words=Moody+Mr&searchType=basic&sequence=0&state=Utah&date2=1890&proxtext=Mr.+Moody&y=10&x=13&dateFilterType=yearRange&page=1>
)

1890 **[1890 second coming prediction]** Klaus J. Hansen: *"in 1890
there was a widespread belief among church members that Joseph Smith's
prediction of 1835, that fifty-six years would 'wind up the scene,'
**would be fulfilled"*** (Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought, Autumn
1966, p. 76) (See September 22, 1832 [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))

1890 May 29, Lorenzo Snow, president of the Quorum of the Twelve,
prophesied to them, ***"You***

***brethren will live to behold the savior, you shall not die, death
shall have no power over you. You have a great work to perform. . . . Be
faithful and you shall never taste death."*** Apostle Brigham Young,
Jr., who recorded the prophecy, added with reverence: ***"His words
penetrated to the marrow surely God is with us."*** In August Apostle
Anthon H. Lund announced at the San Pete Stake Conference, ***"We need
not say—'our Lord delayeth his coming!' … We can be sure it is in the
near future, because the Lord told Joseph Smith . . . that if he lived
to be a certain age, he should see His face, which points to 1891"***
That same month, Snow gave Abraham H. Cannon an apostolic blessing which
promised that Cannon would ***"live to see the Savior, [and] the triumph
of Zion."*** As late as September 1890, John Morgan, one of the Seven
Presidents of the Seventy, reported a widespread belief that
***"missions would necessarily be short; that the end is very near and
the Elders about to be called home."*** 62

62Brigham Young [Jr.] Journals, 1862-1902, LDS Church Archives, 29 May
1890; on 6 August 1890, Snow made a similar prediction. Journal
notations and quotations provided courtesy of B. Carmon Hardy; Lund
quoted in Lawrence G. Coates, "The Mormons and The Ghost Dance,"
*Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought* 18 (Winter 1985): 107; Abraham
H. Cannon, Diaries, 6 August 1890; Morgan quoted in Hartley, "The
Seventies in the 1880s," 83

(Journal of Mormon History, Vol. 22, No. 2, 1996, p. 24
<http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory>
)

1890 October 6, In a major effort to reassure the Saints and decrease
apocalyptic concern, no fewer than seven Church authorities spoke on the
second coming in the same general conference in which the Manifesto was
presented. Some advised the Saints not to expect Christ's advent in
1891- Gibson Condie recorded in his journal, ***"Some of the speakers
referred to the year 1891, as a great many of the saints have an Idea
that the Lord was to come and reign on earth."*** George Q. Cannon told
members that there was too much ***"agitation" associated with the 1891
prophecy and that "no man knoweth the day nor the hour."***69

However, during the same conference, Moses Thatcher warned the Saints to
***"prepare themselves for 1891"*** as ***"the day of calamity is
approaching. It is at the doors,"*** and Apostle Francis M. Lyman told
the Saints to ***"pray twice a day" to "be prepared for what is to come
in 1891"*** Perhaps most tellingly, after the Manifesto's presentation
at general conference, Woodruff promised the members: ***I will say to
the Latter-day Saints, as an Elder in Israel and as an Apostle of the
Lord Jesus Christ, we are approaching some of the most tremendous
judgments God ever poured out upon the world. You watch the signs of the
times, the signs of the coming of the Son of Man. They are beginning to
be made manifest both in heaven and earth. . . . We are approaching
these things. All that the Latter-day Saints have to do is to be quiet,
careful and wise before the Lord, watch the signs of the times, and be
true and faithful; and when you get through you will understand many
things that you do not today.70***

69 Gibson Condie, "Reminiscences and Diary," 107; Cannon in Stuy,
*Collected Discourses,* 2:110, 121; Marriner Wood Merrill, 5 October
1890, Diaries, 1887-1906, 1:72, LDS Church Archives; citation provided
courtesy of B. Cannon

Hardy. The Church authorities who referred to the year 1891 in
connection with

the "coming of the Son of Man reference" include B. H. Roberts, Moses
Thatcher, Francis M. Lyman, Franklin D. Richards, HeberJ. Grant, George
Q. Cannon, and Wilford Woodruff. See "General Conference,"
*DeseretEvening News,* 6 October 1890, 4; "General Conference," ibid., 6
October 1890, 4; "The Mormon Conference," *Salt Lake Tribune,* 5 October
1890, 4.

70"General Conference," *Deseret Evening News,* 6 October 1890, 2;
Study, *Collected Discourses,* 2:107, 110, 136; Carlton, *The
Wonderlands of the Wild West,* 321. Alexander, "Wilford Woodruff and the
Changing Nature of Mormon Religious Experience," (Journal of Mormon
History, Vol. 22, No. 2, 1996, p. 27, 28
<http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory>
)

1890 October 6, **[1891 second coming prediction]** General Conference,
Elder B. H. Roberts (Church historian and Seventy) said: "Before another
General Conference shall be reached we shall have entered upon the year
**1891**. In the Book of Doctrines and Covenants, section 130, Joseph
Smith was promised that if he lived until 1891, he would see the face of
the Son of Man. On February 14th, 1835, at a meeting where certain
Elders, they were told by Joseph that they were called to go forth to
*prune the vineyard* for the last time, before the coming of Christ,
even 56 years should *wind-up the scene*. 1835 plus 56 years also brings
us to the year 1891! These circumstances have called the Saints to
believe that some great epock will open at that time--the year following
the present [1891]. My faith in the matter is whatever the Lord has in
mind to accomplish in that year will be performed. **It may be
something, however, that would scarcely create a ripple.** The
organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was one
of the greatest events in the history of the world. It was organized
with six members, and but little was known concerning it even in the
neighborhood where it occurred, at the time. It may be that the
greatness of what shall occur in 1891 will not be comprehended until
succeeding years." (Collected Discourses 2:105-6)

Many of the Mormons in 1890 expected Jesus to return in the clouds of
the sky in 1891; with thousands of angels in tow, spitting fire-balls
upon the wicked nations of the earth and wiping Jackson County clean of
inhabitants so that they could return and build the city of New
Jerusalem. **Some even prepared hand-carts for the return journey.**
Elder Roberts told them not to expect such a dramatic occurrence, but
**what was going to happen in the year 1891 may even be unnoticed by
those right next to the event!** (Deseret evening news, Great Salt Lake
City Utah, October 06, 1890.)
<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn83045555/1890-10-06/ed-1/seq-2/>
<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn83045555/1890-10-06/ed-1/seq-3/>

1890 October 6, President Wilford Woodruff (God Won’t Let Your Leaders
Lead You Astray) ***“The Lord will never permit me or any other man who
stands as President of this Church to lead you astray.** It is not in
the programme. It is not in the mind of God. If I were to attempt that,
the Lord would remove me out of my place, and so He will any other man
who attempts to lead the children of men astray from the oracles of God
and from their duty.”* (Sixty-first Semiannual General Conference of the
Church, Monday, October 6, 1890, Salt Lake City, Utah. Reported in
Deseret Evening News, October 11, 1890, p. 2)

1890 October 6, Historical Newspaper, Oakland Tribune, Monday October 6,
1890, Vol. XXX, Num. 77. The Mormons Meet and Say That the Lord is Not
Coming Next Year.

The Mormons: What They Think About Polygamy and the Lord's Coming:

Salt Lake, Utah, October 6.—At the Mormon Conference yesterday, George
Q. Cannon spoke of the lofty conceptions of the saints, especially
regarding the future state. He believed the brethren in the penitentiary
would be more prosperous when they got out than if they had not got in,
because they could say they had not broken any of the covenants they had
made. He thanked God he lived among such people; those who were not
afraid of consequences and took punishment like heroes.

He said that the time is coming when this conduct of the Latter-Day
Saints would stand out as the brightest page in modern history, and that
their sufferings would be acceptable to the Lord.

**Cannon further said** he would obey the laws, bow in submission to the
nation and leave the consequences to the Lord. **He told the people not
to worry about 1891; that Christ would not come then.**

In the afternoon President Woodruff spoke. He said “*the Lord was about
to **prune his vineyard for the last time**, and that sprouts would fall
like grain before the mower.”* END [100+1890=1990]

NOTE: I found this article as I was doing genealogical research on
gt-grandfather John Speer who immigrated in 1882 to San Francisco. In
the same column there is a lengthy article of “*the state/condition of
the Mormon Saints, Polygamy and that the Government should stop the
immigration to Utah and suppress the traffic now going on with the
ignorant, unsuspicious foreigners by the Mormons. The Mormon Church is
paying the passage to this country, of their converts, and then pays
their Railroad fare to SLC.”*

NOTE: This is how my Christensen family came to America in 1889. They
were enlisted in the “Mormon Expedition” on the steamship Milo, which
left Copenhagen on Aug. 8, 1889. The Milo was chartered by the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. The Saints were then transported by
train into the Salt Lake Valley. My gt-grandfather David Hopkins was
baptized a member in 1856, immigrated to America in 1872 and living in
Soda Springs, Idaho. David’s son Thomas married Emma Christensen at the
Logan Temple, Sept. 2, 1894. Emmas great-grandfather Jens Hansen was in
the Charles C. Rich Company; These 126 individuals were in the company
when it began its journey from the outfitting post on the Elkhorn River
about 27 miles west of Winter Quarters, Nebraska. Departed 21 June 1847
Arrived 2 October 1847. This was the second group of wagons and forth
wagon train to arrive in the Salt Lake Great Basin. On the LDS website
it is stated that *Jens Hansen was at the end of a mission for the
church, and a captain of ten* [teams of wagons]. 
<http://history.lds.org/overlandtravels/pioneerDetail?lang=eng&pioneerId=35548>

NOTE: After reading all of these revelations from God, can you imagine
the urgency my (our) ancestors must have felt to arrive with Zion, in
the Great Salt Lake Basin, before the 1890 second coming! But none of
this happened and it’s still being preached to every generation since
Joseph’s original 1820 revelations from God. Josephs prophesy of the
second coming has gradually died by attrition during the early 1900s;
eventually forgotten by the 2nd & 3rd generation of Latter Day Saints.
*“Verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion—the
pure in heart; therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall
mourn. For behold, and lo, **vengeance cometh speedily** upon the
ungodly as the whirlwind; and **who shall escape it? …Zion shall
escape** …let it be read this once to her ears, that I, the Lord, have
accepted of her offering; and if she sin no more none of these things
shall come upon her.”* [(D&C 97:21-22, 25, 27 August 2,
1833](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/97.21-22,25,27?lang=eng))

1890 Oct. 22, *“We offer the following for the benefit of editors and
other who are not willfully mistaken in their animadversions on
**"Mormon" immigration: "The gathering of the Saints" is a part of their
religion. It is preparatory to the second coming of Christ…** The
Latter-day Saints gather to Utah to build up Zion, serve God, learn His
ways, walk in his paths and unite with their co-religionists in
**preparing a people for the coming of Christ, whose advent they believe
to be near at hand.** We deem It our duty to present the truth in regard
to this matter… we have no excuse for spreading falsehood, deceiving the
public and injuring a religious community…”* (Deseret Evening News,
Great Salt Lake City, Utah, 22 Oct. 1890. Chronicling America: Historic
American Newspapers. Lib. of Congress.
<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn83045555/1890-10-22/ed-1/seq-2/>
)

1890 December, The collapse of London’s Baring Brothers Bank: During
Utah’s territorial boom of 1889-90, the value of land and of business
and residential property had skyrocketed to as much as ten times
pre-1889 prices. Speculators reaped enormous paper profits, and real
estate transactions in Salt Lake City alone reach an unprecedented
\$100,000 daily. To meet voracious demands for credit, nine new banks
opened in the city. Then, in December 1890, shock waves from the
collapse of London's Baring Brothers bank burst Utah's speculative
bubble. Total collapse in 1893. (Why do you suppose there was a SLC Land
Grab?)
<http://www.uen.org/utah_history_encyclopedia/p/PANIC_1893_FINANCIAL.html>

1891 January 1, President Wilford Woodruff wrote in is diary: *"Jan 1,
1891. This is New Year's Day, and the year that has been looked upon by
many as **one of the more important years in the world**."* [(Journal of
Wilford
Woodruff,](http://www.ristow.us/foswiki/pub/Genealogy/WilfordWoodruffsJournalKrautsPioneerPress/Woodruff_Wilfords_Journal_-_Krauts_Pioneer_Press.pdf)
Jan. 1, 1891)

1891 January 3, In early 1891, Charles Lowell Walker of St. George
wrote, ***"Some say and have written that great things are to happen . .
. in this year 1891. Yea, dire and dreadful things are to transpire.
Some even declare that Christ will come and the Millennial Reign
inaugurated."***10

…Future apostle Franklin D. Richards, present in Nauvoo, recorded:
***"He is therefore now 37***

***years old last Dec, which leaves 48 years yet to transpire until the
time of Promise that Joseph should see Christ."**14 *

*l0Diary of Charles Lowell Walker,* edited by A. Karl Larson and
Katharine Miles Larson, 2 vols. (Logan: Utah State University Press,
1980), 3 January 1891, 2:721-722

l4Andrew F. Ehat and Lyndon W. Cook, comps. and eds., *The Words of
Joseph Smith: The Contemporary Accounts of the Nauvoo Discourses of the
Prophet Joseph* (Orem, Utah: Grandin Book Company, 1991), 181, emphasis
Richards.

(Journal of Mormon History, Vol. 22, No. 2, 1996, p. 6
[*http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory*](http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory)*)*

(Charles Lowell Walker, Diary, [Bottom of page
21,22](http://books.google.com/books?id=Lu9uWtP97U8C&pg=PA193&lpg=PA193&dq=charles+l+walker+second+coming&source=bl&ots=4CIfhqUznU&sig=oU5LMxdQIggB-PzItPwDRr9lr7o&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NENEVIPiCKWIigLapoGIBQ&ved=0CCUQ6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q=charles%20l%20walker%20second%20coming&f=false)
Needs transcribed.)

1891 May 05, Revd. W. P. Brown, Second Coming of Christ.\
 A Mormon Preacher of Richmond, Says It Will Soon Occur in Jerusalem.\
The Rev., W. P. Brown, now of Richmond, Mo., but formerly of
Independence, was in the latter town yesterday, he has of late attracted
much attention because of his belief that the second coming of Christ is
soon to occur, he has openly announced his belief to this effect and is
making his arrangements accordingly. He expects to be present at the
arrival of Christ, and to be a participant in the attendant ceremonies.\
 Rev. Mr. Brown says that the second coming of Christ is to take place
at an early date. The exact time he does not state, The event is, in his
opinion, to occur in Jerusalem. He expresses his surprise that people
generally do not realize this. The Jews, he says, are the only people
who almost universally give the idea credit. They are concentrating in
Jerusalem now from all countries to take part in the festivities.
General rejoicing will, he says, follow this coming of …?… [Jesus
Christ]\
 Rev, Mr. Brown is quite wealthy. He owns considerable property at
Independence and at different points in Kansas. He is endeavoring to
dispose of his entire interest and turn it into cash. He was at
Independence for this purpose. He expects to be able to sell out in time
to sail for Jerusalem within two months.

This new believer in the second coming of Christ was a resident of
Independence fifteen ago. He is a promoter of the doctrine set forth in
the book of Mormon held and guarded at Richmond, Mo., by the son of
Colonel Whitmer, who was one of the witnesses and custodian of the
original copy. He preaches the pure Mormon doctrine. [NOTE: He would be
a Whitmerite not LDS. I found this article in eleven different
Historical Newspapers]

(Revd. W. P. Brown, The Sedalia Weekly Bazoo., (Sedalia, Mo.) May 05,
1891, Page 6, Image 6)
<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn90061066/1891-05-05/ed-1/seq-6/#date1=1890&index=2&rows=20&words=Brown+P+Rev+W&searchType=basic&sequence=0&state=&date2=1891&proxtext=Rev.+W.+P.+Brown+&y=11&x=13&dateFilterType=yearRange&page=1>

(Rev. W.P. Brown, Second Coming of Jesus Christ, The Austin Weekly
Statesman. (Austin, Tex.), June 18, 1891, Image 7.)
<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn86088296/1891-06-18/ed-1/seq-7/#date1=1890&index=3&rows=20&words=Brown+P+Rev+W&searchType=basic&sequence=0&state=&date2=1891&proxtext=Rev.+W.+P.+Brown+&y=11&x=13&dateFilterType=yearRange&page=1>

1891 November 1, *“‘And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by
the Holy Ghost shall be Scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall
be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the
voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation’ [*[*D&C
68:4*](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/68.4?lang=eng#3)*].*

*“It is by that power that we have led Israel. By that power President
Young presided over and led the Church. By the same power President John
Taylor presided over and led the Church. And that is the way I have
acted, according to the best of my ability, in that capacity. I do not
want the Latter-day Saints to understand that the Lord is not with us,
and that He is not giving revelations to us; for **He is giving us
revelation, and will give us revelation until this scene is wound
up.”***

(President Wilford Woodruff, Deseret Evening News, Nov. 7, 1891, also
[Official Declaration
1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/od/1?lang=eng), Excerpts
from Three Addresses by President Wilford Woodruff Regarding the
Manifesto).

<https://www.lds.org/manual/presidents-of-the-church-student-manual/wilford-woodruff-fourth-president-of-the-church?lang=eng>

1891 Dec. 31, With no second coming of Christ occurring, Charles L.
Walker wrote on the last day of that year how he was able to reconcile
that non-event: *“**This is the end of the Great eventful year as some
have choosed to call it, and as many have been looking for many years**,
some wiseacres have even boldly asserted and even prophesied that Christ
would come and that the Saints would controll all the Kingdoms of the
Earth, and some have written and published Books with diagrams showing
the great Image that Daniel refers to, and have calculated as they
thought to a nicety the Times, time, and half times, etc., etc., etc.,
and have set forth startling things to come to pass, which has all
proved that they with all their learning and vast researches knew
nothing about the set times of the Great Eternal. **The only remarkable
thing that has occurred this year is the suppression of the Revelation
on celestial Marriage** by the Heads of the Church. And for how long I
know not.”*

(Larson and Larson, Diary of Charles L. Walker, p.731
<http://rationalfaiths.com/even-fifty-six-years-wind-scene/> )

In 1892, President Wilford Woodruff, counseled St. George members
***that the dispensation "was to be cut short" with little time for
preparation "before the coming of the Son of Man and the ushering in of
the great millennium."*** When he dedicated the Salt Lake Temple in
April 1893, he prophesied that the ***"Millennium is near at hand"***
and that the temple was to receive Christ at his return after the
preparation and perfection of the Saints. In 1894, he wrote his
expectation that ***the day had arrived for angels to descend, "in their
hands sharp Sides . . . sent forth to Visit the Earth... to poor [sic]
out the Judgements of God upon the wicked and will Continue untill the
scene is wound up."*** In 1897 he was still prophesying that ***"many in
the flesh at the time would see the savior."***76

76Woodruff, *Journal,* 9:133, 307; see also ibid., 9:300; Woodruff
quoted in Walker, *Diary,* 2:742; Stuy, *Collected Discourses,* 3:275;
"Ninety Years of Age," *DeseretNews Semi-Weekly,* 2 March 1897, 6. See
also Walker, *Diary,* 2:868; Study, *Collected Discourses, 3:424;*
"Discourse," *Deseret Evening News, 7* May 1898. (Journal of Mormon
History, Vol. 22, No. 2, 1996, p. *30*
<http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory>

1893 April 8, The [Salt Lake
Temple](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_Lake_Temple) was dedicated in
Apr. 6, 1893, just in time for Jesus return.

END OF THE WORLD. It is Fixed by the Mormons for an Early Day in the
Month of April. *"If the teaching? of the Mormon faith are true,"* Bald
Judge Edward F. Colburn, a prominent Republican of Salt Lake City, to a
Boston Herald man, *“it is scarcely worth while for the army of
candidates to flock to Washington after offices, because after the **6th
of April** there won't be any offices to fill. **That is the date fixed
by Brigham Young for the second coming of Christ, an event which is to
transpire when the great temple of the Mormon Church*** ***is fully
completed**. The cornerstone was laid on April 6, 1854, and the final
shake-hands and wind-up were to come precisely forty years thereafter.
Old Brigham was shrewd enough to fix the time far enough in advance,
when he knew that he would be out of the way of heating the criticism on
his unreliability as a prophet.”* (The Dalles Oregon times-mountaineer.,
April 08, 1893, Image 1)

<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn93051669/1893-04-08/ed-1/seq-1/#date1=1890&index=0&date2=1894&searchType=advanced&language=&sequence=0&lccn=sn93051669&words=Christ+coming+second&proxdistance=5&state=&rows=20&ortext=&proxtext=&phrasetext=second+coming+of+Christ&andtext=&dateFilterType=yearRange&page=1>

Also see (San Francisco Call, Volume 73, Number 116, Sunday, 26 March
1893, page 11)

http://cdnc.ucr.edu/cgi-bin/cdnc?a=d&d=SFC18930326.2.212&srpos=3&e=-------en--20--1--txt-txIN-mormon%2b%22second+coming%22+------

1893 April 19, *“**Second Coming Postponed:** The great Mormon Temple at
Salt Lake was completed and dedicated on April 6th. It has been forty
years in building, and is one of the most beautiful structures in the
world. **Fifty thousand saints** from all parts of the world witnessed
the ceremony, which the late Brigham Young said **would occur at the
second coming of Christ.** However, a timely revelation was received by
the present President, saying **the second coming of the Saviour was
postponed.**”* (The Pacific commercial advertiser, Honolulu, Hawaiian
Islands, April 19, 1893, Image 5)
<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn85047084/1893-04-19/ed-1/seq-5/#date1=1893&index=1&rows=20&words=Fifty+saints+thousand&searchType=basic&sequence=0&state=Hawaii&date2=1893&proxtext=Fifty+thousand+saints&y=15&x=10&dateFilterType=yearRange&page=1>

Also see: (The Hawaiian gazette, Honolulu, Oahu, Hawaii, April 25, 1893,
Page 8, Image 9, Second Coming Postponed)

<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn83025121/1893-04-25/ed-1/seq-9/#date1=1893&index=0&rows=20&words=Fifty+saints+thousand&searchType=basic&sequence=0&state=Hawaii&date2=1893&proxtext=Fifty+thousand+saints&y=15&x=10&dateFilterType=yearRange&page=1>

Jesus said, "that evil servant shall say in his heart, My Lord delayeth
His coming." (Matt. 14:48) The LORD said unto Joseph: "...and they shall
say that Christ delayeth his coming until the end of the earth." (D&C
45:26)

1894 June *“Can you tell me where the people are who will be shielded
and protected from these great calamities and judgments which are **even
now at our door**? I’ll tell you. The priesthood of God who honor their
priesthood and who are worthy of their blessings are the only ones who
shall have this safety and protection. They are the only mortal beings.
**No other people have a right to be shielded from these judgments**.*
[Only the Mormons will survive!] *They are at our doors; not even this
people will escape them entirely.”* (President Wilford Woodruff, Young
Women’s Journal, vol. 5: page 512, June 1894.) [100+1894=1994]

1895 June 24, THE COMING OF CHRIST: Henry [Smith] Tanner, an Elder of
the Mormon Church, Speaks of Such an Event. One of the lodgerooms in
Pythian Hall was comfortably filled last evening by ladies and gentlemen
anxious to hear Elder Henry S. Tanner of the Church of Christ of Latter
Day Saints speak upon the Second Coming of the Savior. Mr. Tanner
concerned himself with four interesting elements of his theme, touching
successively upon the matters of why, when, where and how the
extraordinary event may be expected to manifest itself.

For reasons indicating and assuring the Second Coming of Christ, Mr.
Tanner drew extensively upon the scriptures, and generally explained
that the Redeemer's mission had been completed only in part, and that
another visit to earth and intercourse with man were necessary to the
accomplishment of his divine purpose. The life of Christ on earth formed
a portion of the discourse, and Mr. Tanner indicated numerous
manifestations of the Savior's divinity and the methods by which his
purpose was to be attained. The scriptures also afforded Elder Tanner
evidence to the fact that this event will occur in a period of
persecution, extraordinary confusion and distress of nations.

Mr. Tanner believed that the world's present unsettled condition
forebodes more serious disturbances, and at no very distant day the
Second Coming of Christ. With the manner of its occurrence and where the
event may happen, Mr. Tanner concluded his discourse.

(San Francisco Call, Volume 78, Number 24, Monday, 24 June 1895)
<http://cdnc.ucr.edu/cgi-bin/cdnc?a=d&d=SFC18950624.2.142&srpos=1&e=-------en--20--1--txt-txIN-mormon%2b%22second+coming%22+------#>
genealogy
<http://wc.rootsweb.ancestry.com/cgi-bin/igm.cgi?op=GET&db=ldshistorical&id=I44776>

1898 April *“Jesus will come by and by, and appear in our midst, as He
appeared in the day when upon the earth among the Jews, and He will eat
and drink with us and talk to us, and explain the mysteries of the
Kingdom, and tell us things that are not lawful to talk about now.”*
([](https://www.lds.org/manual/teachings-of-presidents-of-the-church-lorenzo-snow/chapter-24-reflections-on-the-mission-of-jesus-christ?lang=eng&clang=ase#15-36787_000_24)Conference
Report, Apr. 1898, 13–14.)

1899 April, *“**The precise time of Christ’s coming has not been made
known to man**. By learning to comprehend the signs of the times, by
watching the development of the work of God among the nations, and by
noting the rapid fulfilment of significant prophecies, we may perceive
the progressive evidence of the approaching event: ‘But the hour and the
day no man knoweth, neither the angels in heaven, nor shall they know
until he comes’ [*[*D&C
49:7*](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/49.7?lang=eng#6)*].
His coming will be a surprise to those who have ignored His warnings,
and who have failed to watch. ‘As a thief in the night’ will be the
coming of the day of the Lord unto the wicked”* (James E. Talmage, The
Articles of Faith, 362–63; 42 Edition 1973).

1900 Klaus J. Hansen: *"In 1900, Woodruff's successor, Lorenzo Snow,
affirmed at a special priesthood meeting in the Salt Lake Temple that
**'there are many here now under the sound of my voice, probably a
majority, who will live to go back to Jackson County and assist in
building that temple' "*** (Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought,
Autumn 1966, p. 74) (See September 22, 1832 [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))

1900 October, Lorenzo Snow, who became Church president after Woodruffs
death in 1898, announced in an October 1900 meeting of the First
Presidency and the Twelve Apostles that ***"Christ will come before
long."*** In January 1901, while blessing a child, Snow petitioned God
that he ***"may live until Thy Son shall come in His glory among the
children of men."*** In November 1900, Snow preached: ***"There are many
here now under the sound of my voice, probably a majority who will have
to go back to Jackson county and assist in building the temple."*** At a
reception for missionaries going to Japan in June 1901, Snow testified,
***"When you return to Jackson County and engage in building the temple
there, you will see Jesus and be associated with him."*** Snow viewed
tithing as a step in the arrival of the millennium, as the funds would
buy the Jackson County temple site, and instructed Church leaders in
1899 at a solemn assembly on tithing: ***"If you live 10 or 15 yrs more
or less perhaps Less, we are going back to Jackson Co."***79 Apostles
Brigham Young, Jr., and Mathias Cowley also emphasized the nearness of
Zion's redemption, Cowley declaring ***"the day is not far distant when
the Lord will clean out Jackson County,"*** advising fellow leaders to
***“prepare themselves to build up the center stake.”***80 But following
Snow's death in 1901, President Joseph F. Smith instituted a policy of
assimilation rather than separation. Between 1897 and 1907, the Church
replaced eleven apostles, two members of the First Council of the
Seventy, and four members of the Presiding Bishopric. Thus, out of the
twentyfive General Authorities, all were men who had no personal
association with either Joseph Smith or the profoundly millennial
worldview of his generation. Only one among this group of new Church
leaders, Charles W. Penrose, was born before the Saints' arrival in
Utah.81

79 Snow on Jackson County quoted in Stan Larson, ed., *A Ministry of
Meetings: The Apostolic Diaries of Rudger Clawson* (Salt Lake City:
Signature Books, 1993), 71-72, 150, 213-17, 233-34, 269, 270, 286; Snow
on tithing quoted in Alexander, *Mormonism in Transition,* 288-89;
Godfrey and Card, *The Diaries of Charles Ora Card,* 449, 504,568. See
also *Deseret News,* 15June 1901; Anthony Woodward Ivins, Diaries, 2
July 1899, 2:68. George C. Naegle, Letter to Anthony W. Ivins, 1
September 1903, Anthony W. Ivins Collection, Box 10, folder 5, Utah
State Historical Society, pledged \$100 to buy land in Jackson County,
Missouri.

80Larson, *A Ministry ofMeetings,* 78; Winslow Fair Diary, 242-43,
typescript copy, Special Collections, Lee Library, Brigham Young
University.

81Allen and Leonard, *The Story of the Latter-day Saints, 456;* Gustive
O. Larson, *The Americanization of Utah for Statehood* (San Marino,
Calif.: Huntington Library, 1971), 272-73. (Journal of Mormon History,
Vol. 22, No. 2, 1996, *p. 31,32*
[*http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory*](http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory)
*)*

1901 Mar 3, Lorenzo Snow promises Salt Lake temple workers that ***"some
of us would go back to Jackson County, Missouri." ***

1901 June 20, ***“He the Savior lives and I know it! … Many of you will
live to go back to Jackson Co. and you will see Him there.”*** President
Lorenzo Snow (spoke during a social engagement at the home of second
counselor Joseph F. Smith)

1902 March, At stake conferences in March 1902, Bishop W. Derby Johnson,
Jr., told the Saints

in Mexico ***the millennium was near,*** reiterating Colonia Diaz
Patriarch James A. Little's belief, expressed one month earlier, that
***"some present would live to see the Son of Man come in His***

***Glory."***78

78Anthony Woodward Ivins, Diary, 9 March 1902, 2:8; David Fisk Stout,
Diaries, 9 February 1902, 13:41, microfilm, LDS Church Archives.
(Journal of Mormon History, Vol. 22, No. 2, 1996, p. 31
<http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1027&context=mormonhistory>
)

1903 Oct 22, First Presidency and Twelve authorize purchase of twenty
five acres of the original temple lot at Independence, Jackson County,
Missouri. Purchase is complete on 14 Apr 1904.

1903, [Benjamin F.
Johnson](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_F._Johnson)
brother-in-law and private secretary to Joseph Smith Jr., could not
conceal his disappointment when he remarked that ***"we were over 70
years ago taught by our leaders to believe that the coming of Christ and
the millennial reign was much nearer than we believe it to be now.”***
(Ed Decker & Dave Hunt, *The God Makers* p. 227; Eugene, Oregon: Harvest
House Publishers, 1984)
<https://ojs.lib.byu.edu/spc/index.php/BYUStudies/article/viewFile/6005/5655>

1916 Oct 8, Apostle James E. Talmadge announces in Conference that *"The
[ten lost] tribes shall come: they are not lost unto the Lord; they
shall be brought forth as hath been predicted; and I say unto you there
are those now living - aye, some here present - who shall live to read
the records of the Lost Tribes of Israel..."*

1931 October, **Speaking of the revelations in the Doctrine and
Covenants**, President Joseph Fielding Smith said: *“If we will **put
them into practice**, if we will keep the commandments of the Lord, **we
will know the truth** and there shall be no weapon formed against us
that shall prosper. **There shall be no false doctrines,** no teaching
of men that will deceive us. … If we will **search these revelations
then we will be fortified against errors** and we will be made strong”*
(Conference Report, Oct. 1931, p. 17).
<https://www.lds.org/general-conference/1986/10/the-gift-of-modern-revelation?lang=eng>

1935 January 1, (see 1832 September 22, [D&C
84:1-5,31,32](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/84.1-5,31,32?lang=eng#1))
Joseph Fielding Smith: *"I firmly believe that there will be some of
that generation who were living when this revelation was given who shall
be living when this temple is reared.... I have full confidence in the
word of the Lord and that it shall not fail"* (Joseph Fielding Smith,
*The Way to Perfection*, Jan. 1, 1935, p. 270)

So what are we left to imagine about the Last Days or 2nd coming?

**Christ will come during Joseph Smiths Generation!**

Now here comes the spin! The sanitation of our church history.
<http://en.fairmormon.org/Joseph_Smith/Alleged_false_prophecies/Second_Coming_to_be_in_1890>

<http://www.shields-research.org/General/LDS_Leaders/1stPres/Joseph_Smith/56_Year.htm#2>.

1945 June, *“**When our leaders speak, the thinking has been done**.
When they propose a plan–it is God’s plan. When they point the way,
there is no other which is safe. When they give direction, it should
mark the end of controversy. God works in no other way. To think
otherwise, without immediate repentance, may cost one his faith, may
destroy his testimony, and leave him a stranger to the Kingdom of God.”*
(Ward Teachers' Message, *"Sustaining the General Authorities of the
Church"* Improvement Era, June 1945, p.354)

1948 April “Thus, clearly, the Lord has placed the responsibility for
directing the work of gathering in the hands of the leaders of the
Church to whom he will reveal his will where and when such gatherings
would take place in the future. It would be well before the frightening
events concerning the fulfilment of all God's promises and predictions
are upon us, that the Saints in every land prepare themselves and look
forward to the instruction that shall come to them from the First
Presidency of this Church as to where they shall be gathered and not be
disturbed in their feelings until such instruction is given to them as
it is revealed by the Lord to the proper authority.” Harold B. Lee
Conference Report, April 1948

1951 Jan 9, WWIII *“The people had become indifferent to the counsel and
advice of the authorities of the Church, and were more interested in the
accumulating of wealth than they were in living their religion and …at
this time there began to be war and bloodshed.”* (The Vision of John
Taylor, As related by Edward Lunt, Cedar City, Utah, Jan 9, 1951)

<http://visionsandtribulation.blogspot.com/p/a-vision-of-president-john-taylor-1951.html>

<http://visionsandtribulation.blogspot.com/search/label/New%20Civil%20War%20US>

1952 April, *“Let me call your attention to this fact which you, of
course, all know that **we are living in the last days,***
**[100+1952=2052]** *the days of trouble, days of wickedness, spoken of
as days of wickedness several hundred years before the coming of Christ
by Nephi, as it is recorded in the twenty-seventh chapter of Second
Nephi.”* (Prophet Joseph Fielding Smith, *Conference Report*, April
1952)

1964 October, “*Truly it must be said that **these last days
*****[100+1964=2064]** *are exhibiting more than ever the blatant power
and force of Satan…* *In that pre-earth life Lucifer offered to "save"
mankind and to bring all back. But he [Satan] would have done it by
**deceit** and by **force**, thereby destroying the **agency** of man*.
(High Priest [ElRay L.
Christiensen,](http://scriptures.byu.edu/gettalk.php?ID=1378)
*Conference Report*, October 1964)

NOTE: As we participate in Church meetings and listen in General
Conference we are told historical faith promoting stories, but what we
aren’t told is the total truth and facts about these stories. (Example:
If I asked why Joseph Smith was [tarred and
feathered](https://www.lds.org/manual/primary-5-doctrine-and-covenants-and-church-history/lesson-21-joseph-smith-is-tarred-and-feathered?lang=eng)
would you know the whole story? Does the LDS Church mention *“Joseph of
being intimate with Eli Johnsons [15 year old] sister, Nancy Marinda
Johnson… and he was screaming for Joseph’s*
[*castration”*](http://www.mormondialogue.org/topic/57996-why-was-joseph-smith-really-tarred-and-feathered/)
and they had “*Dr. [Richard] Dennison there to perform the castration*.”
Did you know that Josephs wife, Emma tried to [poison
him?](http://www.dialoguejournal.com/wp-content/uploads/sbi/articles/Dialogue_V17N03_89.pdf))
So if our leaders take the story out of context; conceal the truth or
partial truth; how can we make competent decisions about our faith if
all the facts aren’t represented? So our church leaders have
***forced*** a decision on us through their ***deception***; you either
believe in Mormonism and receive Eternal Life or you’re an apostate and
will have Eternal Torment. Aren’t these the same choices we were given
at that pivotal time during the War in Heaven? Did the LDS Church take
our ***free agency*** away? If they’ve taken our free agency then; whose
church is this?

1966 Apr. *“Many things have taken place during the past one hundred and
thirty-six years to impress faithful members of the Church with the fact
that the coming of the Lord is near.”*

(Joseph Fielding Smith, General Conference Report, Apr. 1966, 12–13).

1972 What was said about Joseph Smith failed prophecy: *“It may be
reasonable to assume that in giving this revelation to the Prophet,
**the LORD did have in mind the generation of people who would still be
living within the one hundred years from the time of the announcement of
the [Lords] revelation,** and that they would enjoy the blessings of the
temple, and a glorious cloud would rest upon it. It is also reasonable
to believe that no soul living in 1832, is still living in mortality on
the earth. …Verily, verily, I [God] say unto you, that when I give a
commandment to any of the sons of men to do work unto my name, and those
sons of men go with all their might and cease not their diligence, and
their enemies come upon them and hinder them from performing that work,
behold it behooveth me to require that work no more at the hands of
those sons of men, but to accept their offerings."* (Joseph F. Smith,
*Answers to Gospel Questions*, vol. 4 p. 112) Note: Joseph F. Smith,
died July 2, 1972

1975 November, ***We will never go wrong as a people if we follow the
Lord’s prophet**, who is also our prophet, and heed his teachings,
counsel, and personal example. I bear witness to his divine calling. He
is my teacher, my leader, and my exemplar. I sustain and uphold him by
my faith and prayers. I have complete and unwavering confidence in his
prophetic calling and divine leadership. His character is upright, his
mind alert, his counsel wise, his judgment sound, his vision clear. He
has a great love for all peoples. He is their friend and is considerate
of their needs*. (President Spencer W. Kimball, Ensign, Nov. 1975)

1978 May, *“For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man:
but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.”* [*2
Pet.
1:19–21*](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-pet/1.19-21?lang=eng#18)
*Well, if prophecy is the most sure way of knowing what is to happen—and
Isaiah said that the Lord had declared the end from the beginning*
[*Isaiah 46:10*](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/isa/46.10?lang=eng#9)
*—it’s all there when we understand it. And **so I think that if Jesus
pronounced such judgment upon those who failed to understand the
scriptures relating to his first coming, how would he feel toward us and
the world if we fail to recognize the value of the words of the holy
prophets relating to his second coming?*** (Elder LeGrand Richards, The
Second Coming of Christ, Ensign, May 1978)

1978 November, “When the Prophet speaks, … [the debate is
over”](https://www.lds.org/ensign/1979/08/the-debate-is-over?lang=eng)
(Ensign, Nov. 1978, p. 108).

1979 March 4, *“For nearly six thousand years, **God has held you in
reserve to make your appearance in the final days before the Second
Coming of the Lord**. Every previous gospel dispensation has drifted
into apostasy, but ours will not. True, there will be some individuals
who will fall away; but the kingdom of God will remain intact to welcome
the return of its head—even Jesus Christ. While **our generation** will
be comparable in wickedness to the days of Noah, when the Lord cleansed
the earth by flood, there is a major difference this time. It is that
**God has saved for the final inning** some of his strongest children,
who will help bear off the Kingdom triumphantly. And that is where you
come in, **for you are the generation that must be prepared to meet your
God**… My beloved brothers and sisters, “Jesus increased in wisdom and
stature, and in favor with God and man,” and so can you. **You are a
royal generation**. The heavenly grandstands are cheering you on. **We
are fast coming to the close of this game**. The opposition is real and
is scoring. But we have scored, we are scoring, and we will score in the
future. The Lord is our coach and manager. His team will win, and we can
be a valiant part of it if we so desire. Rise up, O youth of Zion! **You
hardly realize the great divine potential that lies within you**. May
you all follow your leader, Jesus Christ, and increase mentally,
physically, spiritually, and socially, I pray for all of you in the name
of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.”* (Ezra Taft Benson, BYU Fireside
<http://speeches.byu.edu/?act=viewitem&id=89>)

1980 September 16, “*Youth of Zion, do you realize you are **living in
the days of the fulfillment** of these signs and wonders? You are among
those who **will see many of these prophecies fulfilled**. Just as
certain as was the destruction of the temple of Jerusalem and the
scattering of the Jews, so shall these **words of the Savior be certain
to your generation**... You will live in the midst of economic,
political and spiritual instability. When you see these signs –
unmistakable evidences that **His coming is nigh** – be not troubled,
but ‘stand... in holy places...” These holy places consist of our
temples, our chapels, our homes and the stakes of Zion, which are as the
Lord declares, ‘for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from
the wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole
earth’... We have every confidence that you, ‘**the rising generation
***[**100+1980=2080]*,****’* *will not falter. I repeat: You were
valiant spirits reserved for this exceptional time. You have but one
choice: To rise to the task of history’s most significant hour!”*
(Prophet Ezra Taft Benson, “Prepare Yourselves for the Great Day of the
Lord," address delivered to the Devotional Assembly, Ricks College,
Idaho, September 16, 1980)

1980 October, “Those who smugly think these calamities will not happen,
that they somehow will be set aside because of the righteousness of the
Saints, are deceived and will rue the day they harboured such a
delusion. The Lord has warned and forewarned us against a day of great
tribulation and given us counsel, through His servants, on how we can be
prepared for these difficult times.

Have we heeded His counsel?”

Ezra Taft Benson, October 1980 General Conference

1981 October 6, (It Must Come True) ***“The ultimate test of a true
prophet is when he speaks in the name of the Lord, his words come to
pass”*** (President Ezra Taft Benson, Deseret News, October 6, 1981, p.
6a)

1981 October 31, Elder Bruce R. McConkie and other General Authorities
presided over the 14 BYU Stake Conference… Elder McConkie believes that
“***the Second Coming of Christ will not take place during his lifetime,
nor the lifetime of his children, and maybe not during the lifetime of
his grandchildren.** He said that there is too much to be done before
the Savior's return can take place… as we measure time, it is a **long
way off**.”* **[100+1981=2081]**

1982 May, ***“Are we not witnessing the fulfillment of these signs
today?*** …We constantly hear or read of wars and rumors of war*s.
Atheism, agnosticism, immorality, and dishonesty are flaunted in our
society. Desertions, cruelty, divorce, and infidelity have become
commonplace, leading to a disintegration of the family. Truly we live in
the times of which the Savior spoke, when “the love of men shall wax
cold, and iniquity shall abound.”*

*Youth of Zion, do you realize you are living in the days of the
fulfillment of these signs and wonders? **You are among those who will
see many of these prophecies fulfilled.** Just as certain as was the
destruction of the temple at Jerusalem and the scattering of the Jews,
**so shall these words of the Savior be *certain to your generation*.
***[**100+1982=2082]** *We know not the day nor the hour of His coming,
but of this you may feel assured: **You stand close to the great day of
the Lord!*** [(Pod-cast](http://speeches.byu.edu/?act=viewitem&id=92)
President Ezra Taft Benson, [*Prepare Yourself for the Great Day of the
Lord*](https://www.lds.org/new-era/1982/05/prepare-yourself-for-the-great-day-of-the-lord?lang=eng)*,*
New Era May 1982)

Spencer W. Kimball The ancients looked forward to the coming of the Lord
and asked, “When shall all these things be?” The pioneers thought it
would be soon and watched for signs; our grandparents watched for the
sprouting of the fig tree; our parents watched for the reddening of the
sky; and we ourselves have heard all our lives that the Second Coming is
near. (Faith Proceeds the Miracle, 249)

<https://www.lds.org/manual/doctrines-of-the-gospel-student-manual/chapter-36-the-lords-second-coming?lang=eng>

1982 February, **[1982 second coming prediction]** *“In this setting, as
these and ten thousand like things are in progress, suddenly, quickly,
as from the midst of eternity, He comes! Fire burns before him; tempests
spread destruction; the earth trembles and reels to and fro as a drunken
man. Every corruptible thing is consumed. He sets his foot on the Mount
called Olivet; it cleaves in twain. The Lord has returned and the great
millennium is here! **The year of his redeemed has arrived!”*** (Bruce
R. McConkie, Millennial Messiah: The Second Coming of the Son of Man, p.
21–22).

1982 February, *“We live in the day when the signs are coming to pass.”*
(Bruce R. McConkie, The Millennial Messiah: The Second Coming of the Son
of Man, p. 344)

1982 February, *“**Before** the Lord Jesus descends openly and publicly
in the clouds of glory, attended by all the hosts of heaven; **before**
the great and dreadful day of the Lord sends terror and destruction from
one end of the earth to the other; **before** he stands on Mount Zion,
or sets his feet on Olivet, or utters his voice from an American Zion or
a Jewish Jerusalem; **before** all flesh shall see him together;
**before** any of his appearances, which taken together comprise the
second coming of the Son of God—**before all these, there is to be a
*secret appearance* to selected members of his Church.** He will come in
private to his prophet and to the apostles then living. Those who have
held keys and powers and authorities in all ages from Adam to the
present will also be present”* (Bruce R. McConkie, The Millennial
Messiah: The Second Coming of the Son of Man, p. 578-79)

<https://www.lds.org/manual/doctrines-of-the-gospel-student-manual/chapter-36-the-lords-second-coming?lang=eng>

As to the Second Coming, the time is fixed, the hour is set, and,
speaking after the manner of the Lord, the day is soon to be. The
appointed day can be neither advanced nor delayed. It will come at the
decreed moment, chosen before the foundations of the earth were laid,
and it can be neither hastened by righteousness or put off by
wickedness. It will be with our Lord’s return as it was with his birth
to Mary: the time of each coming was fixed by the Father… (Bruce R.
McConkie

A New Witness for The Articles of Faith, 591)

Neal A. Maxwell

The Savior taught this in the parable of the fig tree whose tender new
branches give a sign of the coming of summer. “So likewise,” **when the
elect** shall see the signs of His coming “they shall know that he is
near, even at the doors” ([JS—M
1:38–39](http://lds.org/scriptures/pgp/js-m/1.38-39?lang=eng#37); see
also [Matt.
24:32–33](http://lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/24.32-33?lang=eng#31); [D&C
45:37–38](http://lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/45.37-38?lang=eng#36)).

1988 May “Over the sweep of Christian history, some believers have, by
focusing on a few prophecies while neglecting others, prematurely
expected the Second Coming. Today, while we are obviously closer to that
great moment, we are in the same danger. . . . “In the context of such
cautions, I have no hesitancy in saying that there are some signs—but
certainly not all— suggesting that ‘summer is nigh’ (Matthew 24:32)
“Members of the Church need not and should not be alarmists. They need
not be deflected from quietly and righteously pursuing their daily
lives” (Neal A. Maxwell, Conference Report, Apr. 1988, p.6–8; or Ensign,
May 1988, p.7, 9)

1998 December 18, “Ted Capener: You certainly are not now or never have
been, I’m sure, a prophet of doom, or of doomsday. **Are we living in
the last days**?\
Gordon B. Hinckley: “***I don’t know**, but we better act as if we
were*. **[My Prophet doesn’t know?]**\
TC: Yeah.\
GBH: “*Then we won’t have anything to worry about!”*\
TC: That’s right.\
GBH: “*If it’s ready to come, we’ll be ready.”* (Prophet Gordon B.
Hinckley, interview by Ted Capener, Friday, December 18, 1998, KUED
Public Television Station in Salt Lake City, Utah)\
<http://www.deseretnews.com/article/670073/President-Hinckley-on-KUED-Ch-7-tonight.html?pg=all>

2001 October 6, “***The era in which we live is the fulness of times
spoken of in the scriptures**, when God has brought together all of the
elements of previous dispensations* [*Joel
2:28–32*](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/joel/2.28-32?lang=eng#27)*.
…Those who observe us say that we are moving into the mainstream of
religion. **We are not changing. We teach the same
doctrine.**”*([](https://www.lds.org/general-conference/2001/10/the-times-in-which-we-live?lang=eng)[living-in-the-fulness-of-times,](https://www.lds.org/general-conference/2001/10/living-in-the-fulness-of-times?lang=eng)
Gordon B. Hinckley, General Conference, October 2001)

2001 October 7*, “I have just been handed a note that says that a U.S.
missile attack is under way. I need not remind you that we live in
perilous times. …Now, I do not wish to be an alarmist. I do not wish to
be a prophet of doom. I am optimistic. **I do not believe the time is
here when an all-consuming calamity will overtake us.*** *…Are these
perilous times? They are.”\
*([the-times-in-which-we-live](https://www.lds.org/general-conference/2001/10/the-times-in-which-we-live?lang=eng)
Prophet Gordon B. Hinckley, General Conference, October 7, 2001)

2004 April 4, *“**We of this generation ***[100+2004=2104] ***are the
end harvest of all that has gone before**. It is not enough to simply be
known as a member of this Church. A solemn obligation rests upon us. Let
us face it and work at it. We must live as true followers of the Christ,
with charity toward all, returning good for evil, teaching by example
the ways of the Lord, and accomplishing the vast service He has outlined
for us. May we live worthy of the glorious endowment of light and
understanding and eternal truth which has come to us through all the
perils of the past. Somehow, among all who have walked the earth, **we
have been brought forth in this unique and remarkable season**. Be
grateful, and above all be faithful.”* (Gordon B. Hinckley, General
Conference April 4, 2004)
<https://www.lds.org/general-conference/2004/04/the-dawning-of-a-brighter-day?lang=eng>

2004 April 4, Preparation for the Second Coming: *“We need to make,
spiritual preparation for the events prophesied at the time of the
Second Coming. I wish to speak about… ‘the faithful are taught to study
the signs of it [the Second Coming] and to be prepared for it [the
Second Coming] of these great realities’ …**We are living in the
prophesied time** “when peace shall be taken from the earth” (*[*D&C
1:35*](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/1.35?lang=eng#34)*),
when “all things shall be in commotion” and “men’s hearts shall fail
them” (*[*D&C
88:91*](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88.91?lang=eng#90)*).
There are many temporal causes of commotion, including wars and natural
disasters, but an even greater cause of current “commotion” is
spiritual.”* (Dallin H. Oaks, General Conference April 4, 2004)
<https://www.lds.org/general-conference/2004/04/preparation-for-the-second-coming?lang=eng>

2005 January, “Fear shall come upon all people. But you and I know that
the Lord has prepared places of safety to which he is eager to guide
us....It will be our choice whether or not to move up or stay where we
are. But the Lord will invite and guide us upward by the direction of
the Holy Ghost...” (Henry B. Eyring, Raise the Bar, BYU Idaho Talk -
January 2005)

2008 April 5,
[Examples-of-righteousness:](https://www.lds.org/general-conference/2008/04/examples-of-righteousness?lang=eng)
Timestamp 2:40 *“As bearers of the priesthood, **we have been placed on
earth in troubled times**…* Timestamp 11:50 *I have thought about that
experience [wiggling my ears] over the years as I’ve contemplated how,
particularly when we’re young, **we tend to imitate the example of our
parents, our leaders, our peers**. The prophet Brigham Young said: “We
should never permit ourselves to do anything that we are not willing to
see our children do. We should set them an example that we wish them to
imitate…”(Deseret News, June 21, 1871, 235.) My brethren, as we now
leave this general priesthood meeting, let us all determine to **prepare
for our time of opportunity** and to honor the priesthood we bear
through the service we render, the lives we bless, and the souls we are
privileged to help save. **You “are a chosen generation, a royal
priesthood, an holy nation,”** and you can make a difference.”* [(1
Peter 2: 9)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-pet/2.9?lang=eng#8)
(Thomas S. Monson, General Conference, Priesthood Session. Note: Talk
given with a since of sadness or heavy hearted.)

2008 April 30, Uploaded on YouTube: LDS Prophets warn us of the dangers
Facing America.

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ehD390q9G3k>

2008 Jul 23, Uploaded on YouTube; LDS Church Leaders preparing us for
the 2nd Coming of Christ. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqaesQ2EE8w>

2009 April 5, Thomas S. Monson: *“Since last we met together in a
general conference six months ago, there have been **continuing signs**
that circumstances in the world aren’t necessarily as we would wish. The
global economy, which six months ago appeared to be sagging, seems to
have taken a nosedive, and for many weeks now the financial outlook has
been somewhat grim. In addition, the moral footings of society continue
to slip, while those who attempt to safeguard those footings are often
ridiculed and, at times, picketed and persecuted. Wars, natural
disasters, and personal misfortunes continue to occur. It would be easy
to become discouraged and cynical about the future—or even fearful of
what might come—if we allowed ourselves to dwell only on that which is
wrong in the world and in our lives.”* (Thomas S. Monson, General
Conference, Ensign, May 2009, 89).

2010 Dec. 5, “Look Steadfastly for His Coming. *…We live in the 11th
hour before the coming of the day of our Lord. Let us therefore look
forward to that blessed day when the King of kings descends with a shout
takes away death, dries up tears, and ushers in a new era of peace, joy,
and learning.”* (President Uchtdorf, *First Presidency Christmas
Devotional*)

2011 Second Coming of Jesus Christ, Author’s Note: *“I personally have
been given the **promise in my Patriarchal Blessing** that I would be
with those who shall return to Jackson County, Missouri, to assist in
the building of that Holy Temple for the Second Coming of Jesus Christ.
It may happen in this life or during the Millennium.”* (BOOK: Family
History and Temples Including Grigg and Related Family Genealogies, By
Dick Griggs, page 51.) Note: notice the distorted view of the
Millennium.
<https://books.google.com/books?id=2myR_qjAl6kC&pg=PA51&lpg=PA51&dq=Daniel+H.+Wells+second+coming&source=bl&ots=M-u5qL-u4f&sig=K0Xtiluf0fEptnfZz8XSLz-b_yY&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lA-vVKnUNoLpoAS1w4KwDw&ved=0CDwQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q=Daniel%20H.%20Wells%20second%20coming&f=false>

2014 LDS Essay, Since the second coming didn’t happen in 1890 as
prophesied, the converts outside the United States were asked to:
***“Beginning in the 1890s converts outside the United States were asked
to build up the Church in their homelands rather than move to Utah.”***
(LDS Essay:
<https://www.lds.org/topics/plural-marriage-and-families-in-early-utah>
paragraph 12)

2015 Second Coming (LDS Church)

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Coming_(LDS_Church)>

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Is it so hard to comprehend that the early saints would believe in a
1890 second coming of Christ?

In my life time, I can remember 1,024 church members committing suicide
in the name of their religion. 1978 People's Temple; 1993 Branch
Davidians; 1997 Heaven's Gate; I’m sure there’s many more.

Jesus warned; [Matthew
7:15-20](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/7.15-20?lang=eng#14)
that many false prophets would come, and several other places warn us
about false prophets and spiritual deception ([2 Corinthians
11:4-15](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-cor/11.4-15?lang=eng);
[Galatians
1:6-9](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/gal/1.6-9?lang=eng#5); [1
Timothy
4:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-tim/4.1?lang=eng#primary); [2
Peter
2:1-3](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/2-pet/2.1-3?lang=eng#primary);
and [1 John
4:1](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/1-jn/4.1?lang=eng#primary)). We
should not be surprised, to discover that there are false prophets in
the world today.

Jesus said: *v.33 These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye
might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good
cheer; I have overcome the world.* [(John
16:33)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/16.33)

Jesus said: <span id="12" class="anchor"></span> *v.12 I have yet many
things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. v.13 Howbeit when
he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for
he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall
he speak: and he will shew you things to come. v.14 He shall glorify me:
for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you.* [(John
16:12-14)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/john/16.12-14?lang=eng)

*“v.20 **But the prophet, which shall presume to speak a word in my
name**, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in
the name of other gods, **even that prophet shall die**. 21 And if thou
say in thine heart, How shall we know the word which the LORD hath not
spoken? 22 **When a prophet speaketh in the name of the LORD, if the
thing follow not, nor come to pass,** that is the thing which the LORD
hath not spoken, but the **prophet hath spoken it presumptuously**; thou
shalt not **be afraid of him**.”* [(Deuteronomy
18:20-22)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/18.20-22?lang=eng)
<https://www.lds.org/scriptures/ot/deut/18.20-22?lang=eng#19>

Joseph F. Smith stated: *"Mormonism, as it is called, must stand or fall
on the story of Joseph Smith. He was either a prophet of God, divinely
called, properly appointed and commissioned, or he was one of the
biggest frauds this world has ever seen. There is no middle ground.*

*If Joseph Smith was a deceiver who willfully attempted to mislead the
people then he should be exposed: his claims should be refuted, and his
doctrines whom to be false, for the doctrines of an imposter cannot be
made to harmonize in all particulars with divine truth. If his claims
and declarations were build upon fraud and deceit, there would appear
many errors and contradiction, which would be easy to detect. The
doctrines of false teachers will not stand the test when tried by the
accepted standards of measurement, the scriptures."* (Doctrines of
Salvation by Joseph F. Smith, pub. 1954, Vol. 1 p. 188. )

If you’re a Mormon and you’re confused, it’s because you’re paying
attention!

*Dan Speer*

George Daniel Speer Sr.

Extra Research:

<https://www.lds.org/topics/second-coming-of-jesus-christ>

<http://mormonthink.com/QUOTES/mormonquotes.htm>

<http://mormonthink.com/QUOTES/lastdays.htm>

**Harmony Society:** Prophet Johann Georg Rapp (George Rapp) 1757–1847

In 1791, George Rapp said, "I am a prophet and I am called to be one" In
1803 Rapps group immigrated to Harmony, PA and started a
[commune](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commune_(intentional_community))
known as the [Harmony
Society](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harmony_Society) that was formally
organized on February 15, 1805. In 1807,
[celibacy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Celibacy) was advocated as the
preferred custom of the community in an attempt to purify themselves for
the coming [Millennium](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millennialism).

Rapp believed that the events and wars [war of 1812] going on in the
world at the time were a confirmation of his views regarding the
imminent [Second Coming of
Christ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Coming). Rapp predicted that
on September 15, 1829, the three and one half years of the [Sun
Woman](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woman_of_the_Apocalypse) would end
and [Christ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christ) would begin his reign
on earth. After Rapp's death in 1847, a number of members left the group
because of disappointment and disillusionment over the fact that his
prophecies regarding the return of Jesus Christ in his lifetime were not
fulfilled.

The Harmonites were
[Millennialists](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millennialism), in that
they believed [Jesus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesus)
[Christ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christ) was coming to earth in
their lifetime to help usher in a thousand-year kingdom of peace on
earth. This is perhaps why they believed that people should try to make
themselves "pure" and "perfect", and share things with others while
willingly living in
[communal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commune_(intentional_community))
"harmony" ([Acts](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acts_of_the_Apostles)
[4:32-37](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_communism#Early_Christian_Communism))
and practicing [celibacy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Celibacy). They
believed that the old ways of life on earth were coming to an end, and
that a new perfect kingdom on earth was about to be realized.

The Harmonite commune ultimately failed because the policy of celibacy
prevented new members from within, and the majority of the outside world
had no desire to give up so much to live in a commune. The society was
formally dissolved in 1906.

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Rapp>

**Jehovah Witness:** In our church we kinda talk badly about Jehovah
Witness and some of their beliefs. The Jehovah Witness have “five failed
prophesy” about the 2nd coming. They (like the LDS) also have to
sanitize their scriptures and doctrinal teachings.

*Studies In the Scriptures -* [*Thy Kingdom Come, 1908
edition*](http://www.jwfacts.com/images/thy-kingdom-come-1911-p228.jpg)

"That the deliverance of the saints **must take place some time before
1914** is manifest, since the deliverance of fleshly Israel, as we shall
see, is appointed to take place at that time, and the angry nations will
then be authoritatively commanded to be still, and will be made to
recognize the power of Jehovah's Anointed. Just how long **before 1914**
the last living members of the body of Christ will be glorified, we are
not directly informed; but it certainly will not be until their work in
the flesh is done; nor can we reasonably presume that they will long
remain after that work is accomplished. With these two thought in mind,
we can approximate the time of the deliverance."

*Studies In the Scriptures - Thy Kingdom Come* 1915 Edition

"That the deliverance of the saints **must take place very soon after
1914** is manifest, since the deliverance of fleshly Israel, as we shall
see, is appointed to take place at that time, and the angry nations will
then be authoritatively commanded to be still, and will be made to
recognize the power of Jehovah's Anointed. Just how long **after 1914**
the last living members of the body of Christ will be glorified, we are
not directly informed; but it certainly will not be until their work in
the flesh is done; nor can we reasonably presume that they will long
remain after that work is accomplished."
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criticism_of_Jehovah's_Witnesses#Failed_predictions>

**Seventh-day Adventist Church:** was founded by [William
Miller](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Miller_(preacher)) in upper
state New York about 1820. Revd. Miller was married in 1803 to “a” Lucy
Smith. During the *Great Revival* or *Second Great Awakening*. In
September 1822, Miller formally stated his Doctrine, in a twenty-point
document, including article 15: *"I believe that the* [*Second
Advent*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Coming) *of* [*Jesus
Christ*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesus) *is near, even at the door,
even within twenty-one years,--on or before 1843."* October 22, 1844,
the day Jesus was expected to return, ended like any other day
[^*[28]*^](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millerism#cite_note-28) to the
disappointment of the Millerites. On March 10, 1844, one of the dates of
Joseph Smith Jr’s. second comings perditions, Joseph stated Miller was
wrong about the timing of the second coming.

**People's Temple:** Prophet [Jim
Jones,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Jones) November 18,
1978(1978-11-18) of The People's Temple of the Disciples of Christ: 910
inhabitants of [Jonestown](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonestown), 303
of them children, died by suicide by drinking cyanide-laced
grape-flavored [Flavor Aid](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flavor_Aid).
NOTE: My Gt-grandparents John and Annie Speer are buried at [Evergreen
Cemetery,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evergreen_Cemetery_(Oakland,_California))
Oakland, CA. 412 unclaimed bodies of Jonestown are also buried at
Evergreen.

**Branch Davidians:** Prophet [David
Koresh,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Koresh#Ascent_to_leadership_of_the_Branch_Davidians)
April 19, 1993: The 51-day FBI Siege ended with the death of 76 Branch
Davidians, including David Koresh. Davids 24 children were to serve as
the ruling elders over the millennium after the return of Christ.

**Harold Camping:** In 1992, Camping published a book titled *1994?*, in
which he proclaimed that Christ's return might be on September 6, 1994.
In that publication, he also mentioned that 2011 could be the end of the
world. Camping's predictions use 1988 as a significant year in the
events preceding the apocalypse; this was also the year he left Alameda
Bible Fellowship. As a result, some individuals criticized him for
"date-setting."[^*[50]*^](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harold_Camping#cite_note-50)
Camping's later publications, *We are Almost There!* and *To God be The
Glory*, referred to additional Bible passages which, in his opinion,
pointed to May 21, 2011, as the date for the Rapture and October 21,
2011, as the date for the end of the world.

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harold_Camping>

**Heaven's Gate:** Prophet [Marshall
Applewhite,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marshall_Applewhite) March
19–20, 1997: Marshall Applewhite taped himself speaking of mass suicide
and asserted "it was the only way to evacuate this Earth." After
claiming that a spacecraft was trailing [Comet
Hale–Bopp](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comet_Hale%E2%80%93Bopp),
Applewhite convinced 38 followers to commit suicide so that their souls
could board the craft. Applewhite believed that after their deaths, an
[unidentified flying
object](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unidentified_flying_object) (UFO)
would take their souls to another "level of existence above human",
which he described as being both physical and spiritual. In October
1996, the group purchased [alien abduction
insurance](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alien_abduction_insurance) to
cover up to 50 members at a cost of \$10,000
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heaven's_Gate_(religious_group)#Mass_suicide_and_aftermath>

**Joseph Morris Ministries:** <http://josephmorris.com/edu/> EDU=End of
Days Update

**LDS Apostate, Gladden Bishop:**
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gladden_Bishop> The Resurrected Jesus
Christ. (The spirit of democracy, Woodsfield, Ohio, July 27, 1853, Image
2, Gladden Bishop)

<http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/lccn/sn85038115/1853-07-27/ed-1/seq-2/#date1=1853&index=0&rows=20&words=Mormon+Mormons&searchType=basic&sequence=0&state=Ohio&date2=1854&proxtext=mormon&y=0&x=0&dateFilterType=yearRange&page=3&fullscreen=true>

**Christopher Mark Nemelka:**
<http://www.marvelousworkandawonder.com/tsp/download/LEHI.pdf>

The[ Perpetual Emigration
Fund](http://heritage.uen.org/resources/Wcd6fb3d6206c9.htm) was
established to aid the poor convert in “The Gathering of Zion” between
1850-1890 [(D&C
57:1-3)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/57.1-3?lang=eng)

To my children, If I lead you astray you will be ok:

v.54 Hence came the saying abroad among the people, that the Son of God
hath atoned for original guilt, wherein the sins of the parents cannot
be answered upon the heads of the children, for they are whole from the
foundation of the world.
<https://www.lds.org/scriptures/pgp/moses/6.54?lang=eng#53>

<span id="54" class="anchor"></span>

1830-1834 Coming of the Son of Man: *“ When I contemplate the rapidity
with which the great and glorious day of the coming of the Son of Man
advances, when He shall come to receive His Saints unto Himself, where
they shall dwell in His presence, and be crowned with glory and
immortality: when I consider that **soon** the heavens are to be shaken,
and the earth tremble and reel to and fro; and that the heavens are to
be unfolded as a scroll when it is rolled up; and that every mountain
and island are to flee away, I cry out in my heart, What manner of
persons ought we to be in all holy conversation and godliness! You
remember the testimony which I bore in the name of the Lord Jesus,
**concerning the great work which He has brought forth in the last
days.** You know my manner of communication, how that in weakness and
simplicity, **I declared to you what the Lord had brought forth by the
ministering of His holy angels to me for this generation.** I pray that
the Lord may enable you to treasure these things in your mind, for I
know that His Spirit will bear testimony to all who seek diligently
after knowledge from Him. I hope you will search the Scriptures to see
whether these things are not also consistent with those things which the
ancient Prophets and Apostles have written. Your brother, etc. JOSEPH
SMITH”*

(Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, by Joseph Smith. Compiled by
Joseph Fielding Smith Church Historian. DHC--[Documentary] History of
the Church. Section One 1830-34, p.29
<http://www.boap.org/LDS/Joseph-Smith/Teachings/T4.html>)

1842-43 Earth Now Groaning Under Corruption: *The earth is groaning
under corruption, oppression, tyranny and bloodshed; and **God is coming
out of His hiding place**, as He said He would do, to vex the nations of
the earth. JOSEPH SMITH”* (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, by
Joseph Smith.Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith Church Historian.
DHC--[Documentary] History of the Church. Section Five 1842-43, p.253
<http://www.boap.org/LDS/Joseph-Smith/Teachings/T5.html> )

https://www.lds.org/manual/teachings-joseph-smith/chapter-21?lang=eng

Pulsipher, Zerah 1789-1872

Autobiography (c. 1803-1862)

Typescript, HBLL.

HISTORY OF ZERA PULSIPHER

AS WRITTEN BY HIMSELF

I was about fourteen or fifteen years of age… I have often heard my
father say that the signs of Christ's second coming was often seen and
that he would come before many years should pass away. And if they did
not live to see it, likely his children would.

However, when I was about twenty-one I married a very agreeable
companion, lived with her about one year when she died leaving one child
which we named Harriett. After the death of my wife (Polly or Mary
Randell) I had some anxiety about her state and condition, consequently
in answer to my desires in a few weeks she came to me in vision and
appearing natural looked pleasant as she ever did and sat by my side and
assisted me in singing a hymn - beginning thus: "That glorious day is
drawing nigh when Zions Light Shall Shine." This she did with a seeming
composure.

This vision took away all the anxiety of my mind concerning her in as
much as she seemed to enjoy herself well. This hymn which she introduced
and sang with me applied to the great work of the last dispensation of
the fullness of times. This transpired about ten years before Joseph
Smith had discovered the first revelation of the work of the last days.
My mind became calm as respecting her condition in the spirit world.

In the year 1814 I hired a farm at Bellows falls on the Connecticut
River and being alone gave my brother John the privilege to work it with
me. In the fall of that season there were the most extraordinary
northern lights that I had ever saw, it was the cause of many
speculative notions among the people but my father said it was the signs
of the last days and of Christ's second coming. I regarded my father's
remarks as specimens of good sense.

Joseph Smith was the founder of the Mormon Church. He saw in a vision
that the Kingdom of God would be west of a large river. He set up an
earthly kingdom just west of the Mississippi River in Illinois. The town
had been called Commerce, but Joseph Smith changed the name to Navoo.
Joseph Smith told his followers that Jesus would return at Independence,
Missouri. **While in Independence he was arrested and spent the winter
in the Liberty Jail. At this time he saw a vision of a great river and
Jesus was on the west side of the river**. Independence is east of the
Missouri River. Joseph Smith was being transferred to a different jail
and his followers helped him to escape. He traveled on the Mississippi
River until he saw a mountain and a town in a valley west of the river.
He told his followers that this town would now be called Navoo. He said
it was a Greek word meaning "plateau." His followers could not find
Navoo in Greek, but they believed he was a prophet, so they accepted the
new name….

**Smith Saw: Jesus Would Return in the Rockies**

In the spring of 1844 Joseph Smith received a vision called "The White
Horse Prophecy." He saw that Jesus would return in the Rockies. He told
Brigham Young to take the members west and there they would meet up with
a group of people who were pure in heart (the salt of the earth).

<http://www.entrybytroops.org/joseph-smith.html>

The overlooked prophesy on The Last Days and the 1891 2nd Coming of
Jesus Christ.

I’ve assembled 47 pages of chronological history taught by the early LDS
Church, on the Second Advent of Jesus Christ, and predictions of his
coming in the following years: 1846, before 1880, 1881, 1882 after 1884,
1890-91, 1894.

The LDS Church since 1820 has had much to say, about the Last Days and
the 2nd Coming of Jesus Christ, usually focusing not on preparation for
his advent, but rather on the signs. This focus often has the effect of
producing the emotions of fear, doom, and dread – all of them
incompatible with love. Jesus taught “There is no fear in love; but
perfect love casteth out fear” (1 John 4:18)

It’s ironic but not surprising that the LDS Church requires more of
their members to enter the Kingdom of God then Jesus.<span id="28"
class="anchor"></span> “v.28 Come unto me, all ye that labour and are
heavy laden, and I will give you rest.  v.29 Take my yoke upon you, and
learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest
unto your souls.<span id="30" class="anchor"></span>  v.30 For my yoke
is easy, and my burden is light. [(Matt
11:28-30)](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/nt/matt/11.28-30)

Mr. X

I have gathered 55 pages of documentation showing the Second Advent of
Jesus Christ, and our LDS Prophets and Apostles Predictions of his
coming in the following years: 1846, before 1880, 1881, 1882 after 1884,
1890-91, 1893. The most prophesied date was 1891.

No you aren’t the original chosen people. It was suppose to happen
before 1893. Everything on the above list would have been resolved at
Christ second coming; Polygamy, Council of 50, The White Horse Prophecy,
The Everlasting United Order, The overthrow of the US Government…

The Salt Lake Temple was dedicated in 1893, just in time for Jesus
return. Have you ever wondered why the Saints could build the Manti,
Logan and St. George Temples in 7 to 13 years but the SLT took 40? I
have a 1852? newspaper article with Brigham Young stating it would take
10 years to construct at a cost of \$\_?\_ million See April 8, 1893

1920 was the beginning of the cover up; then the installation of the
1940 “literature censorship committee”

What’s been over looked is that all of Josephs Revelations: Council of
the 50; Polygamy would come to fruition in 1891 the predicted year of
Christ second advent.

I like to reveal the Facts, because with Facts you don’t have to rely on
Faith and Feelings.

Clair Barrus

<http://www.withoutend.org/contributors/clair-barrus/>

<clairvb@gmail.com>

It would please me to share my Second Advent document, with you and you
alone. I’m looking for someone with website design skills to publish my
research. I want it to be a living document that others can add to.
~~Would you be willing to publish this?~~ Do you know someone willing to
publish this?

I’m sending it in its raw format. Please disregard my anger. (I was at a
pretty ugly place when I was working on this.)

I would like to know your story.

George Daniel Speer Sr. (aka George Reeps)

<speer.genealogy@gmail.com>
